gh-137026: Add an explainer guide for asyncio (#137215)
python/cpython: Doc/howto/a-conceptual-overview-of-asyncio.rst

Reviewer: Please wrap lines to ~79 characters. It can be useful to start sentences on new lines to minimise future diff sizes. We have a brief [style guide](https://devguide.python.org/documentation/style-guide/) in the devguide.

Author: >  It can be useful to start sentences on new lines to minimise future diff sizes.

Ah, good idea! 

I addressed both your points and updated.

Author: If the changes looks good to you, could you resolve this comment?

.. _a-conceputal-overview-of-asyncio:

********************************
A Conceptual Overview of asyncio
********************************

:Author: Alexander Nordin

This article seeks to help you build a sturdy mental model of how asyncio
fundamentally works.
Something that will help you understand the how and why behind the recommended
patterns.

During my own asyncio learning process, a few aspects particually drove my
curiosity (read: drove me nuts).
You should be able to comfortably answer all these questions by the end
of this article.

- What's roughly happening behind the scenes when an object is ``await``\ ed?
- How does asyncio differentiate between a task which doesn't need CPU-time
  to make progress towards completion, for example, a network request or file

>   read as opposed to a task that does need cpu-time to make progress, like

Reviewer 2: CPU should be capitalized here:
```suggestion
  read as opposed to a task that does need CPU-time to make progress, like
```

  computing n-factorial?
- How would I go about writing my own asynchronous variant of some operation?
  Something like an async sleep, database request, and so on.

--------------------------------------------
A conceptual overview part 1: the high-level
--------------------------------------------

In part 1, we'll cover the main, high-level building blocks of asyncio: the

> event loop, coroutine functions, coroutine objects, tasks and ``await``.

Reviewer 2: Per my complaints with native coroutines in my other comment, I dislike introducing a distinction between "corotuine functions" (`async def`) and "functions that return coroutines" (e.g., a C function). Please just say "coroutines".

Author: Hm. I'm not sure I see how this sentence is distinguishing between native coroutines and C-generated coroutines. 

Do you want this change:
"coroutine objects" -> "coroutine" 

or this one:
"coroutine functions, coroutine objects" -> "coroutines"

Reviewer 2: The second one.

Author: Ah, I fear I disagree then. I think the distinction between things that generate coroutines, and coroutines is important to make. And I think it's a common gotcha for beginners. I still don't see how this touches on native coroutines vs. C coroutines. Perhaps there's another way to address this?

Reviewer 2: It's an even bigger frustration of mine from working with C coroutines; `inspect.iscoroutinefunction` is sometime used to check if `await something()` works (by checking if it's an `async def` function), which is impossible in the C API.

I'm fine with keeping the distinction later on, but I don't think we should emphasize it in the introduction.

Author: Are C coroutines something most, typical `asyncio` users encounter? I want to focus on the concepts that will be most immediately useful.

Reviewer 2: No, that's the whole problem. See my comment from above; we don't need to explain C coroutines here, we should just make it clear that `async def` and `types.CoroutineType` are special forms of coroutines.

Author: Has this been addressed via the modification from the other comment thread? (reposted for ease of reference):

In this article, coroutine specifically refers to a coroutine object, or more
precisely, an instance of :data:`types.CoroutineType` (native coroutine).
Note that coroutines can also exist as instances of :class:`collections.abc.Coroutine`
-- a distinction that matters for type checking.

==========
Event Loop
==========

Everything in asyncio happens relative to the event loop.
It's the star of the show and there's only one.
It's kind of like an orchestra conductor or military general.

> She's behind the scenes managing resources.

Reviewer 2: We go from "it" to "she" as the pronoun, which is confusing. Pick one; is the event loop an "it" or a "she"?

Author: Modified to it 👍

Some power is explicitly granted to her, but a lot of her ability to get things
done comes from the respect and cooperation of her subordinates.

In more technical terms, the event loop contains a queue of tasks to be run.
Some tasks are added directly by you, and some indirectly by asyncio.
The event loop pops a task from the queue and invokes it (or gives it control),
similar to calling a function.

> That task then runs.

Reviewer 2: Minor, but this sentence stands out in a weird way. I think it should just be merged with the previous sentence. ("The event loop pops a task ..., similar to calling a function, then that task runs.")

Author: Mmm yeah - changed.

Once it pauses or completes, it returns control to the event loop.
The event loop will then move on to the next task in its queue and invoke it.
This process repeats indefinitely.
Even if the queue is empty, the event loop continues to cycle (somewhat aimlessly).

> Effective overall execution relies on tasks sharing well.

Reviewer 2: "Effective overall execution" reads a little weirdly. "Overall" should just be a transition word here:

```suggestion
Overall, effective execution relies on tasks sharing well.
```

But, I'm not sure what "sharing" is supposed to mean here. When I see "sharing", I think about sharing between threads or something like that. "Interacting" is a better word for this case.

Author: I had meant "overall" to refer to all tasks being able to run, but I can see how that's unclear. I figure just removing "overall" for simplicity is a good move here. 

Sharing is meant to refer to control but I see how that's not entirely clear. I made this tweak which I think clarifies things. Let me know!

"Effective execution relies on tasks sharing well: a greedy task could hog 
control and leave the other tasks to starve rendering the overall event loop 
approach rather useless."

> A greedy task could hog control and leave the other tasks to starve rendering

Reviewer 2: This needs a comma:
```suggestion
A greedy task could hog control and leave the other tasks to starve, rendering
```

the overall event loop approach rather useless.

::

    import asyncio

    # This creates an event loop and indefinitely cycles through
    # its queue of tasks.
    event_loop = asyncio.new_event_loop()
    event_loop.run_forever()

=====================================
Asynchronous Functions and Coroutines
=====================================

This is a regular 'ol Python function::

    def hello_printer():
        print(
            "Hi, I am a lowly, simple printer, though I have all I "
            "need in life -- \nfresh paper and a loving octopus-wife."
        )

Calling a regular function invokes its logic or body::

    >>> hello_printer()
    Hi, I am a lowly, simple printer, though I have all I need in life --
    fresh paper and a loving octopus-wife.
    >>>

> This is an asynchronous-function or coroutine-function::

Reviewer 2: I don't think we need dashes here. We should also introduce the concept before we show the example.

Author: Yep, addressed.

Reviewer 3: Unless this is committed, I still see the dashes.

Author: It was changed via this commit early yesterday: https://github.com/python/cpython/pull/137215/commits/3fc668ccf9542d1b562841d64cf07db6ed898258

I don't see the dashes on the latest commit. Again, I think you're working with a rather outdated commit.

    async def special_fella(magic_number: int):
        print(
            "I am a super special function. Far cooler than that printer. "
            f"By the way, my lucky number is: {magic_number}."
        )

Calling an asynchronous function creates and returns a

> :ref:`coroutine <coroutine>` object.

Reviewer 2: I'm not a big Sphinx wizard (unlike @AA-Turner...), but I think this is just equivalent to:

```rst
:ref:`coroutine`
```

Author: Mmm that does seem like it should. However, that substitutes the title of the section that the `coroutine` label points to, which is "Coroutines".

The terms "asynchronous function" (or "coroutine function") and "coroutine object"
are often conflated as coroutine.
That can be confusing!
In this article, coroutine will exclusively mean "coroutine object" -- the
thing produced by executing a coroutine function.

That coroutine represents the function's body or logic.
A coroutine has to be explicitly started; again, merely creating the coroutine
does not start it.
Notably, the coroutine can be paused and resumed at various points within the
function's body.
That pausing and resuming ability is what allows for asynchronous behavior!

=====
Tasks
=====

Roughly speaking, :ref:`tasks <asyncio-task-obj>` are coroutines (not coroutine
functions) tied to an event loop.
A task also maintains a list of callback functions whose importance will become
clear in a moment when we discuss ``await``.
When tasks are created they are automatically added to the event loop's queue
of tasks::

    # This creates a Task object and puts it on the event loop's queue.
    special_task = asyncio.Task(coro=special_fella(magic_number=5), loop=event_loop)

It's common to see a task instantiated without explicitly specifying the event loop
it belongs to.

> Since there's only one event loop, asyncio made the loop argument optional and

Reviewer 2: Let's say "one event loop (in each thread)".

Author: Ya 👍 

Modified

will add it for you if it's left unspecified::

    # This creates another Task object and puts it on the event loop's queue.
    # The task is implicitly tied to the event loop by asyncio since the
    # loop argument was left unspecified.

>     another_special_task = asyncio.Task(coro=special_fella(magic_number=12))

Reviewer 2: We should probably use `create_task` here. `asyncio.Task` is more low-level, which isn't a good fit for a high-level overview of asyncio.

Author: Mmmm yep. Changed this and all other occurrences of `asyncio.Task` to use `asyncio.create_task`.

=====
await
=====

:keyword:`await` is a Python keyword that's commonly used in one of two
different ways::

    await task
    await coroutine

Unfortunately, it actually does matter which type of object await is applied to.

> ``await``\ ing a task will cede control from the current task or coroutine to

Reviewer 2: I tend to describe it as "yielding control", which fits especially well with the context of the `yield` keyword. Are you OK with switching to that terminology?

Author: I purposely tried to use a number of similar but distinct words: cede, yield, give up, etc. to enrich the context for readers rather than always saying it the same way. I think using slightly different phrasing helps reinforce the idea. Let me know what ya think :)

the event loop.
And while doing so, add a callback to the awaited task's list of callbacks
indicating it should resume the current task/coroutine when it (the
``await``\ ed one) finishes.

> Said another way, when that awaited task finishes, it adds the original task

Reviewer 2: The more common idiom is "in other words":
```suggestion
In other words, when that awaited task finishes, it adds the original task
```

back to the event loops queue.

In practice, it's slightly more convoluted, but not by much.
In part 2, we'll walk through the details that make this possible.

> **Unlike tasks, await-ing a coroutine does not cede control!**

Reviewer 2: There shouldn't be a dash here.

Author: Ah shoot, missed that one. Fixed!

Wrapping a coroutine in a task first, then ``await``\ ing that would cede control.
The behavior of ``await coroutine`` is effectively the same as invoking a regular,
synchronous Python function.
Consider this program::

    import asyncio

    async def coro_a():
        print("I am coro_a(). Hi!")

    async def coro_b():
        print("I am coro_b(). I sure hope no one hogs the event loop...")

    async def main():
        task_b = asyncio.Task(coro_b())
        num_repeats = 3
        for _ in range(num_repeats):
            await coro_a()
        await task_b

    asyncio.run(main())

The first statement in the coroutine ``main()`` creates ``task_b`` and places

> it on the event loops queue.

Reviewer 2: This is possessive:
```suggestion
it on the event loop's queue.
```

invocations before ``coro_b()``'s output:

.. code-block:: none

    I am coro_a(). Hi!
    I am coro_a(). Hi!
    I am coro_a(). Hi!
    I am coro_b(). I sure hope no one hogs the event loop...

If we change ``await coro_a()`` to ``await asyncio.Task(coro_a())``, the
behavior changes.
The coroutine ``main()`` cedes control to the event loop with that statement.
The event loop then works through its queue, calling ``coro_b()`` and then
``coro_a()`` before resuming the coroutine ``main()``.

.. code-block:: none

    I am coro_b(). I sure hope no one hogs the event loop...
    I am coro_a(). Hi!
    I am coro_a(). Hi!
    I am coro_a(). Hi!

------------------------------------------------
A conceptual overview part 2: the nuts and bolts
------------------------------------------------

Part 2 goes into detail on the mechanisms asyncio uses to manage control flow.
This is where the magic happens.
You'll come away from this section knowing what await does behind the scenes
and how to make your own asynchronous operators.

================================================
coroutine.send(), await, yield and StopIteration
================================================

> asyncio leverages those 4 components to pass around control.

Reviewer 2: It's sort of weird to reference the title in the body. Let's just say "asyncio leverages 4 components to pass around control."

Author: Ok 👍 
Changed.

> 

Reviewer 2: There's too much whitespace here.

Author: Yep fixed.

:meth:`coroutine.send(arg) <generator.send>` is the method used to start or resume a coroutine.
If the coroutine was paused and is now being resumed, the argument ``arg``
will be sent in as the return value of the ``yield`` statement which originally
paused it.
If the coroutine is being started, as opposed to resumed, ``arg`` must be None.

:ref:`yield <yieldexpr>`, like usual, pauses execution and returns control to the caller.
In the example below, the ``yield`` is on line 3 and the caller is
``... = await rock`` on line 11.
Generally, ``await`` calls the ``__await__`` method of the given object.
``await`` also does one more very special thing: it propagates (or passes along)
any yields it receives up the call-chain.
In this case, that's back to ``... = coroutine.send(None)`` on line 16.

The coroutine is resumed via the ``coroutine.send(42)`` call on line 21.

> The coroutine picks back up from where it ``yield``\ ed (that is, paused) on line 3

Reviewer 2: "that is" reads a little funky to me. How about this?
```suggestion
The coroutine picks back up from where it ``yield``\ ed (or "paused") on line 3
```

Author: Agreed it is a bit funky. I'm pretty sure this is the result of find-replacing i.e. with that is. Happy to switch to "or". But I don't think quotes around "paused" are needed.

and executes the remaining statements in its body.

> When a coroutine finishes it raises a :exc:`StopIteration` exception with the

Reviewer 2: I think this needs a comma:
```suggestion
When a coroutine finishes, it raises a :exc:`StopIteration` exception with the
```

> return value attached to the exception.

Reviewer 2: Should we mention the `value` attribute?

Author: Ya, modified to: 

"When a coroutine finishes, it raises a :exc:`StopIteration` exception with the
return value attached as an attribute."

    16  intermediate_result = coroutine.send(None)
    17  print(f"Coroutine paused and returned intermediate value: {intermediate_result}.")
    18
    19  print(f"Resuming coroutine and sending in value: 42.")
    20  try:
    21      coroutine.send(42)
    22  except StopIteration as e:
    23      returned_value = e.value
    24  print(f"Coroutine main() finished and provided value: {returned_value}.")

That snippet produces this output:

.. code-block:: none

    Beginning coroutine main().
    Awaiting rock...
    Coroutine paused and returned intermediate value: 7.
    Resuming coroutine and sending in value: 42.
    Rock.__await__ resuming with value: 42.
    Coroutine received value: 42 from rock.
    Coroutine main() finished and provided value: 23.

It's worth pausing for a moment here and making sure you followed the various
ways control flow and values were passed.

The only way to yield (or effectively cede control) from a coroutine is to
``await`` an object that ``yield``\ s in its ``__await__`` method.
That might sound odd to you. Frankly, it was to me too. You might be thinking:

    1. What about a ``yield`` directly within the coroutine? The coroutine becomes

>     a generator-coroutine (or async generator), a different beast entirely.

Reviewer 2: This seems confusing. "Generator coroutines" (generators decorated with `@types.coroutine`) are much different than "async generators" (`async def` functions that use `yield` in the body).

Author: Ah shoot. It's likely confusing because it's wrong :). Just fixed.

    2. What about a ``yield from`` within the coroutine to a function that yields
    (that is, plain generator)?
    ``SyntaxError: yield from not allowed in a coroutine.``
    This was intentionally designed for the sake of simplicity -- mandating only
    one way of using coroutines. Originally ``yield`` was actually barred as well,
    but was re-accepted to allow for async generators.
    Despite that, ``yield from`` and ``await`` effectively do the same thing.

=======
Futures
=======

A :ref:`future <asyncio-future-obj>` is an object meant to represent a

> computation or process's status and result.

Reviewer 2: "process" is a confusing word here. When you say "process" (in the context of Python concurrency), I think `multiprocessing`. Just "computation" (or perhaps be more specific and say "coroutine") should be clear and fine.

Author: Mhm ya that makes sense. I dropped the "or process".

The term is a nod to the idea of something still to come or not yet happened,
and the object is a way to keep an eye on that something.

A future has a few important attributes. One is its state which can be either

> pending, cancelled or done.

Reviewer 2: These should be in quotes, right?  I'm also a fan of the Oxford comma, but that's up to you.
```suggestion
"pending", "cancelled", or "done".
```

Author: Ya. Haha I don't usually use it. I don't feel strongly either way, but I imagine I've not used it elsewhere in this document and do care about being consistent. 

Fixed quotes.

Another is its result which is set when the state transitions to done.
To be clear, a future does not represent the actual computation to be done, like

> a coroutine does, instead it represents the status and result of that computation,

Reviewer 2: "like a coroutine does" should be in parentheses, not an appositive.

Author: Did a broader rephrasing that I think also fixes that concern:

Unlike a coroutine, a future does not represent the actual computation to be 
done; instead it represents the status and result of that computation, kind of 
like a status light (red, yellow or green) or indicator.

> kind of like a status-light (red, yellow or green) or indicator.

Reviewer 2: Oxford comma again :)

Also I don't think "status-light" needs a dash.

Author: Removed dash 👍

> ``Task`` subclasses ``Future`` in order to gain these various capabilities.

Reviewer 2: Please add a Sphinx reference to `asyncio.Task` and `asyncio.Future` like such:

```suggestion
:class:`asyncio.Task` subclasses :class:`asyncio.Future` in order to gain these various capabilities.
```

Author: Done. Though there are already Sphinx references to the relevant class the first time future and task are introduced. It feels a bit repetitive.

> The prior section said tasks store a list of callbacks and it lied to you a bit.

Reviewer 2: Minor, but it reads a little weirdly to refer to a prior section as "it". Let's say something like this:

```suggestion
The prior section said tasks store a list of callbacks, which wasn't entirely true.
```

It's actually the ``Future`` class that implements this logic which ``Task``
inherits.

Futures may be also used directly that is, not via tasks.

> Tasks mark themselves as done when their coroutine's complete.

Reviewer 2: I think that the apostrophe is gramatically correct, but it's confusing:

```suggestion
Tasks mark themselves as done when their coroutine is complete.
```

Author: Mmm good call.

Futures are much more versatile and will be marked as done when you say so.
In this way, they're the flexible interface for you to make your own conditions
for waiting and resuming.

> 

Reviewer 2: We've only been using one blank line for previous sections.

Author: Made consistent 👍

========================
A homemade asyncio.sleep
========================

We'll go through an example of how you could leverage a future to create your

> own variant of asynchronous sleep (that is, asyncio.sleep).

Reviewer 2: "that is" doesn't seem necessary, just link to `asyncio.sleep`:
```suggestion
own variant of asynchronous sleep (:func:`asyncio.sleep`).
```

This snippet puts a few tasks on the event loops queue and then ``await``\ s a

> yet unknown coroutine wrapped in a task: ``async_sleep(3)``.

Reviewer 2: "yet unknown" is ambigious. Let's call it an "arbitrary coroutine".

Author: It's meant to serve as an intro to the next chunk which describes that coroutine. In the interest of simplicity, I just removed "yet unknown".

We want that task to finish only after 3 seconds have elapsed, but without

> hogging control while waiting.

Reviewer 2: Just to be more clear, we should say that this shouldn't block the event loop:
```suggestion
hogging control of the event loop while waiting.
```

Author: To fit the idea of the event loop passing control around, it's not so much hogging from the event loop as it is from everyone (event loop and other coro's). 

Modified to:

~~"hogging control from everyone else (the event loop and all the other tasks)"~~
"We want that task to finish only after 3 seconds have elapsed, but without
preventing other tasks from running."

::

    async def other_work():
        print(f"I am worker. Work work.")

    async def main():
        # Add a few other tasks to the event loop, so there's something
        # to do while asynchronously sleeping.
        work_tasks = [
            asyncio.Task(other_work()),
            asyncio.Task(other_work()),
            asyncio.Task(other_work())
        ]
        print(
            "Beginning asynchronous sleep at time: "
            f"{datetime.datetime.now().strftime("%H:%M:%S")}."
        )
        await asyncio.Task(async_sleep(3))
        print(
            "Done asynchronous sleep at time: "
            f"{datetime.datetime.now().strftime("%H:%M:%S")}."
        )
        # asyncio.gather effectively awaits each task in the collection.
        await asyncio.gather(*work_tasks)

Below, we use a future to enable custom control over when that task will be marked
as done.
If ``future.set_result()``, the method responsible for marking that future as

> done, is never called, this task will never finish.

Reviewer 2: The appositive for `future.set_result` makes this confusing. Just move it to parentheses:

```suggestion
If ``future.set_result()`` (the method responsible for marking that future as
done) is never called, then this task will never finish.
```

(We also need "then" after the comma.)

We've also enlisted the help of another task, which we'll see in a moment, that
will monitor how much time has elapsed and accordingly call
``future.set_result()``.

::

    async def async_sleep(seconds: float):
        future = asyncio.Future()
        time_to_wake = time.time() + seconds
        # Add the watcher-task to the event loop.
        watcher_task = asyncio.Task(_sleep_watcher(future, time_to_wake))
        # Block until the future is marked as done.
        await future

We'll use a rather bare object ``YieldToEventLoop()`` to ``yield`` from its
``__await__`` in order to cede control to the event loop.
This is effectively the same as calling ``asyncio.sleep(0)``, but this approach

> offers more clarity , not to mention it's somewhat cheating to use

Reviewer 2: Typo:
```suggestion
offers more clarity, not to mention it's somewhat cheating to use
```

``asyncio.sleep`` when showcasing how to implement it!

The event loop, as usual, cycles through its queue of tasks, giving them control,

> and receiving control back when each task pauses or finishes.

Reviewer 2: A few things here:

1. "as usual" reads better as the transition phrase.
2. "giving them control" is reading as an appositive when it's really just a part of a sequence.
```suggestion
As usual, the event loop cycles through its queue of tasks, giving them control
and receiving control back when they pause or finish.
```

Author: Mmm, yep

The ``watcher_task``, which runs the coroutine: ``_sleep_watcher(...)`` will be
invoked once per full cycle of the event loop's queue.

> On each resumption, it'll check the time and if not enough has elapsed, it'll

Reviewer 2: "then" is needed after the second comma.
```suggestion
On each resumption, it'll check the time and if not enough has elapsed, then it'll
```

> pause once again and return control to the event loop.

Reviewer 2: "return" should be a term reserved for returning values (or "finishing"). Let's say "cede" or "yield".

Author: Mm fair. Modified to: "hand control back to the event loop."

Reviewer 2: It looks like this wasn't resolved. Did you forget to push it?

Author: Hm, no. But I suspect I screwed up and reset it while managing merge conflicts from commits done in-line via the Github UI. Remade the change.

Eventually, enough time will have elapsed, and ``_sleep_watcher(...)`` will
mark the future as done, and then itself finish too by breaking out of the

> infinite while loop.

Reviewer 2: `while` is a code statement:
```suggestion
infinite ``while`` loop.
```

Given this helper task is only invoked once per cycle of the event loop's queue,

> you'd be correct to note that this asynchronous sleep will sleep **at least**

Reviewer 2: I think "at least" would fit better in italics instead of bold.

Author: Kk done.

> three seconds, rather than exactly three seconds.

Reviewer 2: We should be consistent with how we describe numbers. Earlier, it was "3", but now it's "three".

Author: Ah, yeah. Fixed all to "three"

> Note, this is also of true of the library-provided asynchronous function:

Reviewer 2: We're already pretty aware that it's a "library-provided asynchronous function". Let's just say "this is also true of `asyncio.sleep`".

Author: Yep good call. Done.

    class YieldToEventLoop:
        def __await__(self):
            yield

    async def _sleep_watcher(future: asyncio.Future, time_to_wake: float):
        while True:
            if time.time() >= time_to_wake:
                # This marks the future as done.
                future.set_result(None)
                break
            else:
                await YieldToEventLoop()

Here is the full program's output:

.. code-block:: none

    $ python custom-async-sleep.py
    Beginning asynchronous sleep at time: 14:52:22.
    I am worker. Work work.
    I am worker. Work work.
    I am worker. Work work.
    Done asynchronous sleep at time: 14:52:25.

You might feel this implementation of asynchronous sleep was unnecessarily
convoluted.
And, well, it was.
The example was meant to showcase the versatility of futures with a simple
example that could be mimicked for more complex needs.
For reference, you could implement it without futures, like so::

    async def simpler_async_sleep(seconds):
        time_to_wake = time.time() + seconds
        while True:
            if time.time() >= time_to_wake:
                return
            else:
                await YieldToEventLoop()

> 

Reviewer 2: We end a little abruptly. There could a be conclusion (that gives you "next steps" or points you the reference documentation).

Author: Ah, yeah it is quite abrupt. I added a little something.

.. _a-conceputal-overview-of-asyncio:

> *********************************
> A Conceptual Overview of asyncio
> *********************************

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
********************************
A Conceptual Overview of asyncio
********************************
```

Author: Done 👍

:Author: Alexander Nordin

This article seeks to help you build a sturdy mental model of how asyncio
fundamentally works.
Something that will help you understand the how and why behind the recommended
patterns.

> During my own asyncio learning process, a few aspects particually drove my
> curiosity (read: drove me nuts).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```
I think this is unnecessary, as I've said before on a review comment that is now disjointed after the lines were wrapped. The idiom in particular will be confusing to translators and people new to English.

Author: I think this has been addressed 👍 . See: https://github.com/python/cpython/pull/137215#discussion_r2250160888

You should be able to comfortably answer all these questions by the end
of this article.

> - What's roughly happening behind the scenes when an object is ``await``-ed?

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- What's roughly happening behind the scenes when an object is :keyword:`await`-ed?
```
The Python docs are referenced based, and so we should reference (and being careful to not over-reference) to other parts of the docs.

Author: Done 👍

Reviewer 3: I don't think the change has been committed.

- How does asyncio differentiate between a task which doesn't need CPU-time
  to make progress towards completion, for example, a network request or file
  read as opposed to a task that does need cpu-time to make progress, like
  computing n-factorial?
- How would I go about writing my own asynchronous variant of some operation?

>   Something like an async sleep, database request, etc.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  Something like an async sleep, database request, and so on.
```
Style guide: Use simple language

Author: Done 👍

---------------------------------------------
A conceptual overview part 1: the high-level
---------------------------------------------

In part 1, we'll cover the main, high-level building blocks of asyncio: the

> event-loop, coroutine functions, coroutine objects, tasks & ``await``.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
event-loop, coroutine functions, coroutine objects, tasks and ``await``.
```
Style guide: Use simple English

Author: Changed this and all other occurrences.

==========
Event Loop
==========

Everything in asyncio happens relative to the event-loop.

> It's the star of the show and there's only one.

Reviewer 2: Ok, well, not *only* one. There can be multiple, just coroutines are only bound to one.

Author: Mmm agreed! Though, do you think it's necessary to immediately make that clarification? I'm concerned it'll add detail for newbies (that's not crucially important at the moment) and advanced readers could likely figure that out on their own.

Reviewer 2: Sure, I'm fine with not explaining it here. But, I don't think we should lie and say that there's "only one" in the introduction.

Author: Mmm ok fair enough. I've removed the "and there's only one" part.

It's kind of like an orchestra conductor or military general.
She's behind the scenes managing resources.
Some power is explicitly granted to her, but a lot of her ability to get things
done comes from the respect & cooperation of her subordinates.

> In more technical terms, the event-loop contains a queue of tasks to be run.

Reviewer 2: It doesn't look like we use a dashed "event-loop" in the rest of the `asyncio` documentation.

Author: Ah gotcha. Will do a pass later for consistency 👍

Author: Changed all occurrences.

    event_loop.run_forever()

===================================
Asynchronous Functions & Coroutines
===================================

This is a regular 'ol Python function::

    def hello_printer():
        print(
            "Hi, I am a lowly, simple printer, though I have all I "
            "need in life -- \nfresh paper & a loving octopus-wife."
        )

Calling a regular function invokes its logic or body::

    >>> hello_printer()
    Hi, I am a lowly, simple printer, though I have all I need in life --
    fresh paper & a loving octopus-wife.
    >>>

This is an asynchronous-function or coroutine-function::

    async def special_fella(magic_number: int):
        print(
            "I am a super special function. Far cooler than that printer. "
            f"By the way, my lucky number is: {magic_number}."
        )

Calling an asynchronous function creates and returns a coroutine object. It
does not execute the function::

    >>> special_fella(magic_number=3)
    <coroutine object special_fella at 0x104ed2740>
    >>>

The terms "asynchronous function" (or "coroutine function") and "coroutine object"
are often conflated as coroutine.

> I find that a tad confusing.

Reviewer 2: Unlike the phrase "you", I think that "I" really doesn't fit.

Reviewer 4: I agree, this is similar to what I was referring to earlier.

Author: Mmm ok will tweak.

Author: Done 👍

> In this article, coroutine will exclusively mean "coroutine object" -- the

Reviewer 2: Please add a distinction between native coroutines and other coroutines. `async def` functions return *native* coroutines ([`types.CoroutineType`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/types.html#types.CoroutineType)), but some things (such as C code) will return an object that simply implements the coroutine protocol ([`collections.abc.Coroutine`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/collections.abc.html#collections.abc.Coroutine)). 

Almost all coroutines are native coroutines, but people generally only need something that implements the coroutine protocol (not the additional frame shenanigans that `types.CoroutineType` provides).

Author: Hm, I'm a bit hesitant to add this distinction unless it serves an important and soon to be useful learning goal. Folks are already having to juggle a number of new similar-sounding concepts when going through this article and I'd prefer not to add to their plate if possible. What was the reasoning you had in mind for why this should be included early on?

Reviewer 2: This is coming off frustration with [my own library](https://github.com/ZeroIntensity/pyawaitable) that exposes coroutines to the C API. Unfortunately, you can't make a native coroutine from the (public) C API, so you have to implement a type that implements `collections.abc.Coroutine`. That means when people use `inspect.iscoroutine` or similar to check if something can be used with `await`, it breaks with C API coroutines, because those check for native coroutines instead of the coroutine protocol. I want to encourage people to use the coroutine protocol instead of native coroutines for support there, and documenting the distinction will help with that.

Author: Ah that does sound frustrating! Thank you for the context.

To ensure I understand, you want to inform folks of the difference between native coroutines & coroutines that abide by the `abc.Coroutine` spec; that way, they don't misuse `inspect.iscoroutine`? 

I'm still wary of adding that distinction in this section. Regular coroutines have just been introduced. Commenting to warn them of a specific, sharp-corner that they might run in to a fair bit further down the line using other libraries doesn't feel like it belongs. I feel that's more of an advanced user edge-case. Perhaps a note, like the one seen below (from `abc.Coroutine`) could be modified slightly and added to `inspect.iscoroutine` to prevent others from encountering this tricksome situation?

<img width="876" height="120" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ffcd272e-1521-4526-9637-026a99db087b" />

Reviewer 2: A note in `inspect.iscoroutine`/`types.CoroutineType` is fine, but we should link to one of those here to give something clickable for users.

Author: Can you draft an example of what you mean? I can't really do so without it feeling clunky and misplaced. Here's what I had in mind:

"Be aware, native coroutines (those made via async def) and coroutines which implement `abc.Coroutine` but are produced via C functions differ in an important way: `inspect.iscoroutine()` would answer `False` for the latter."

But I don't like it. I really don't think this discussion belongs in the intro to coroutines section. It's too specific and somewhat advanced. I fear it'll just confuse folks. 

I do also think we're talking in circles a bit here, so it might be useful to have someone else weigh in?

Reviewer 2: I don't think we should explain *why* the distinction is important, we should just get the idea in people's heads that there are things other than native coroutines. Something like "In this article, coroutine will exclusively refer to an instance of `types.CoroutineType` (known as a "native coroutine"), but be aware that coroutines can also exist as instances of `collections.abc.Coroutine`."

Author: I see. I workshopped it a bit to this. I also wanted to add a slight justification so readers aren't wondering why this is being noted.

In this article, coroutine specifically refers to a coroutine object, or more
precisely, an instance of types.CoroutineType (native coroutine).
Note that coroutines can also exist as instances of collections.abc.Coroutine
-- a distinction that matters for type checking.

Reviewer 2: That's perfect, thank you!

thing produced by executing a coroutine function.

That coroutine represents the function's body or logic.
A coroutine has to be explicitly started; again, merely creating the coroutine
does not start it.
Notably, the coroutine can be paused & resumed at various points within the
function's body.
That pausing & resuming ability is what allows for asynchronous behavior!

=====
Tasks
=====

Roughly speaking, tasks are coroutines (not coroutine functions) tied to an
event-loop.
A task also maintains a list of callback functions whose importance will become

> clear in a moment when we discuss ``await``.

Reviewer 2: We can link to the `await` keyword here via `:keyword:`

Author: Hm. I'm somewhat of two minds in this case. 

I do like the idea of nudging folks towards more formal, precise docs which would also enable them to jump to other relevant concepts like `awaitable`.

But, the `await` documentation doesn't really shed much additional light on what `await` does and if anything may be more confusing than helpful. And clicking through to `awaitable` provides a somewhat tautological definition.
https://docs.python.org/3/reference/expressions.html#await-expression
https://docs.python.org/3/glossary.html#term-awaitable

Ultimately I lean towards the former, but what do you think of that tradeoff?

Reviewer 2: It's good to have clickable references to avoid ambiguity in what's being talked about. We can always improve the `await` documentation later.

Author: Mmm good point re: ambiguity. Will do.

Author: Done 👍

When tasks are created they are automatically added to the event-loop's queue
of tasks::

    # This creates a Task object and puts it on the event-loop's queue.
    special_task = asyncio.Task(coro=special_fella(magic_number=5), loop=event_loop)

It's common to see a task instantiated without explicitly specifying the event-loop
it belongs to.

> Since there's only one event-loop (a global singleton), asyncio made the loop

Reviewer 2: It's a thread-local variable, not a global singleton.

Author: Mmm good callout! I could change this to "(a thread-local variable"), but I'm realizing now even adding "(a global singleton)" might've been unnecessary. Perhaps better to simply remove the parenthesized description.

Author: Removed "(a global singleton)" here btw.

argument optional and will add it for you if it's left unspecified::

    # This creates another Task object and puts it on the event-loop's queue.
    # The task is implicitly tied to the event-loop by asyncio since the
    # loop argument was left unspecified.
    another_special_task = asyncio.Task(coro=special_fella(magic_number=12))

=====

> await

Reviewer 2: Perhaps this section should be moved to the `await` keyword documentation?

Author: I feel like that might be out of scope for this PR? But I'm also not sure if I'm the right person to decide that!

Author: Just want to follow up on this and see how you think this should be addressed.

Reviewer 2: Oh, yeah, sorry. Let's just keep it here for now.

=====

``await`` is a Python keyword that's commonly used in one of two different ways::

    await task
    await coroutine

Unfortunately, it actually does matter which type of object await is applied to.

> ``await``-ing a task will cede control from the current task or coroutine to

Reviewer 2: I don't see the need for the dash or codeblock here. I think "awaiting a task" reads just fine.

Author: Mmm ya good point. Will tweak the various usages including ``await``-ed.

Author: Done 👍

The coroutine ``main()`` cedes control to the event-loop with that statement.
The event-loop then works through its queue, calling ``coro_b()`` and then
``coro_a()`` before resuming the coroutine ``main()``.

.. code-block:: none

    I am coro_b(). I sure hope no one hogs the event-loop...
    I am coro_a(). Hi!
    I am coro_a(). Hi!
    I am coro_a(). Hi!

----------------------------------------------
A conceptual overview part 2: the nuts & bolts
----------------------------------------------

Part 2 goes into detail on the mechanisms asyncio uses to manage control flow.
This is where the magic happens.
You'll come away from this section knowing what await does behind the scenes
and how to make your own asynchronous operators.

==============================================
coroutine.send(), await, yield & StopIteration
==============================================

asyncio leverages those 4 components to pass around control.

``coroutine.send(arg)`` is the method used to start or resume a coroutine.
If the coroutine was paused and is now being resumed, the argument ``arg``
will be sent in as the return value of the ``yield`` statement which originally
paused it.

> If the coroutine is being started, as opposed to resumed, ``arg`` must be None.

Reviewer 2: There should be a mention somewhere here that in CPython, a (native) coroutine is exactly the same as a generator.

Author: Mmmm yes. That will provide some clarity as to the currently odd/surprising appearance of the `StopIteration` exception too. I'll figure out a way to work that in.

Author: I originally tried to work it in here, but it felt a bit odd. It felt more natural in the coroutines section, so I put it there. Give it a look and lemme know!

``yield``, like usual, pauses execution and returns control to the caller.
In the example below, the ``yield`` is on line 3 and the caller is
``... = await rock`` on line 11.
Generally, ``await`` calls the ``__await__`` method of the given object.

> ``await`` also does one more very special thing: it percolates (or passes along)

Reviewer 2: "propagates" seems like a better word.

Author: Mmm agreed.

Author: Changed 👍

    24  print(f"Coroutine main() finished and provided value: {returned_value}.")

That snippet produces this output:

.. code-block:: none

    Beginning coroutine main().
    Awaiting rock...
    Coroutine paused and returned intermediate value: 7.
    Resuming coroutine and sending in value: 42.
    Rock.__await__ resuming with value: 42.
    Coroutine received value: 42 from rock.
    Coroutine main() finished and provided value: 23.

It's worth pausing for a moment here and making sure you followed the various
ways control flow and values were passed.

The only way to yield (or effectively cede control) from a coroutine is to
``await`` an object that ``yield``\ s in its ``__await__`` method.
That might sound odd to you. Frankly, it was to me too. You might be thinking:

    1. What about a ``yield`` directly within the coroutine? The coroutine becomes
    a generator-coroutine, a different beast entirely.

    2. What about a ``yield from`` within the coroutine to a function that yields
    (i.e. plain generator)?
    ``SyntaxError: yield from not allowed in a coroutine.``
    I imagine Python made this a ``SyntaxError`` to mandate only one way of using

>     coroutines for the sake of simplicity.

Reviewer 2: We *are* Python, we should seem like we're able to confidently explain why the language made this choice. I think this is correct, but we should fact check with the PEP somewhere.

Author: Mhm. This looks to be the relevant PEP: https://peps.python.org/pep-0492/#rationale-and-goals. Just updated the section.

>     Ideologically, ``yield from`` and ``await`` are quite similar.

Reviewer 2: Well, they're not similar, they're equivalent.

Author: Well, they're not actually equivalent. If they were, using `yield from` in a coroutine function wouldn't be a `SyntaxError`. But I could strengthen the language from "quite similar" to "very similar".

Reviewer 2: I meant that they functionally do the same thing.

Author: Mhm. I went ahead and updated the language to mirror that sentiment.

=======
Futures
=======

A future is an object meant to represent a computation or process's status and
result.
The term is a nod to the idea of something still to come or not yet happened,
and the object is a way to keep an eye on that something.

A future has a few important attributes. One is its state which can be either
pending, cancelled or done.
Another is its result which is set when the state transitions to done.
To be clear, a future does not represent the actual computation to be done, like
a coroutine does, instead it represents the status and result of that computation,
kind of like a status-light (red, yellow or green) or indicator.

> ``Task`` subclasses ``Future`` in order to gain these various capabilities.

Reviewer 2: We should definitely have some Sphinx refs to `asyncio.Task` and `asyncio.Future` here.

Author: Made a variety of refs where each concept is introduced. Including coroutine, task, future, coroutine.send, yield, and StopIteration.

Futures may be also used directly i.e. not via tasks.
Tasks mark themselves as done when their coroutine's complete.
Futures are much more versatile and will be marked as done when you say so.
In this way, they're the flexible interface for you to make your own conditions
for waiting and resuming.

=========================
await-ing Tasks & futures
=========================

``Future`` defines an important method: ``__await__``. Below is the actual
implementation (well, one line was removed for simplicity's sake) found
in ``asyncio.futures.Future``.
It's okay if it doesn't make complete sense now, we'll go through it in detail
in the control-flow example.

::

    1  class Future:
    2      ...
    3      def __await__(self):
    4
    5          if not self.done():
    6              yield self
    7
    8          if not self.done():
    9              raise RuntimeError("await wasn't used with future")
    10
    11         return self.result()

The ``Task`` class does not override ``Future``'s ``__await__`` implementation.
``await``-ing a task or future invokes that above ``__await__`` method and
percolates the ``yield`` on line 6 to relinquish control to its caller, which

> is generally the event-loop.

Reviewer 2: I think this is getting too deep into the weeds if we're expecting readers who haven't ever touched asyncio before.

Author: Mmm yeah, I can see that. It's also kind of odd flow-wise right now. For reference (in case you missed it), we decided to cut [this section](https://github.com/anordin95/a-conceptual-overview-of-asyncio/blob/main/3-detailed-control-flow-analysis-example.md) in the interest of reducing the PR's size. 

Went ahead and removed this chunk.

========================

> A homemade asyncio.sleep

Reviewer 4: You can add a codeblock in a title.

Author: Yes I am aware. I purposely avoiding doing so for this and the `await` section titles. I think in these cases the usage is pretty clear from context. I did so because inlining these as code resulted in them being bolded in the reference sidebar which makes them standout compared to the other sections for no real reason.

> .. _a-conceputal-overview-of-asyncio:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
.. _a-conceptual-overview-of-asyncio:
```

Reviewer 5: Agree that the spelling error for this anchor needs correction.

Author: Done 👍

********************************
A Conceptual Overview of asyncio
********************************

:Author: Alexander Nordin

This article seeks to help you build a sturdy mental model of how asyncio
fundamentally works.

> Something that will help you understand the how and why behind the recommended

Reviewer 2: "something" is ambigious here.

Author: Mmm ya, modified to:

"This article seeks to help you build a sturdy mental model of how asyncio
fundamentally works, helping you understand the how and why behind the 
recommended patterns."

patterns.

> During my own asyncio learning process, a few aspects particually drove my

Reviewer 2: As Stan said, please remove things like "my". I don't think this sentence is needed at all.

Author: @willingc @StanFromIreland 
That kind of relatability can be crucial for building confidence in learners. The formal documentation style can be intimidating or make people feel like they're the only ones who don't "get it" immediately. This shows getting confused and even frustrated by `asyncio` is okay and happened for the author of the article too. These HOWTO's are specifically meant to allow for less formal, more personable content. I expect everyone on this PR is very comfortable reading dense, rigid docs, but that's an acquired skill. My goal in this piece is to be the reader's supportive friend rather than a perfectly-efficient, precise mentor.

Though, I see I'm outnumbered here. So, if my rant hasn't changed anyone's mind, I'll concede (on this and the various other comments made in a similar spirit).

Reviewer 2: I agree that it's nice to be relatable, but it's not really clear who "my" is referring to, especially if we remove the author byline. Instead, we could do something like "During many people's asyncio learning process, some aspects can be confusing", so it's still relatable but not in reference to a certain person.

Reviewer 5: @anordin95 I agree that building confidence in learners is important. I don't think it is necessary to rant. In fact, it would be counterproductive. The goal is collectively to craft a quality document that is readable and accurate community documentation.

HOWTOs are less formal than the reference documentation. They still need to conform to the style, tone, and quality of Python's documentation. Friendly, patient, and clear are important for the tone.

I like @ZeroIntensity's suggested wording which is relatable, friendly, and clear.

Author: Ah, shoot. I had aimed to still be thoughtful and cogent in my argument and was moreso going for a bit of self-deprecation calling it a rant to lighten the mood. I firmly agree with the goals you outlined :)

And yes, sound good @ZeroIntensity. Will tweak to fit 👍

Author: I originally added your suggestion @ZeroIntensity, but it felt a bit odd to emphasize the confusion without curiosity. I reworked it to this. Let me know if y'all think this looks okay!

"You might be curious about some key ``asyncio`` concepts. You'll be comfortably able to answer these questions by the end of this article."

curiosity (read: drove me nuts).
You should be able to comfortably answer all these questions by the end

> of this article.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
This HOWTO guide will help you understand the following topics:
```

Author: Hm. I don't feel the 3 bullets that follow describe the topics of the piece well, so I'm a bit wary of that wording. The bullets are moreso meant to be milestone questions/learning outcomes. What was the original intention behind the rephrase? Perhaps there's another solution here.

Author: Just want to follow up on this :)

> - What's roughly happening behind the scenes when an object is ``await``\ ed?

Reviewer 2: "roughly" makes this seem unconfident:
```suggestion
- What's happening behind the scenes when an object is ``await``\ ed?
```

Author: Done 👍 

Fyi: I appreciate you writing out the suggestions as commits I could easily do inline. But each time I press commit, the whole page reloads (far from instantly) and scrolls me back to the top, losing my spot. Sometimes I need to refresh this page first before I can even commit it, if any changes have been pushed since the suggestion. And, I have to manage merges with my local changes, but that's not as bad as the first one. Just wanted to explain :)

Reviewer 2: There's an "add suggestion to batch" button so it won't refresh it every time.

Author: Ahhh, right on! I've been going through comments chronologically via the "Conversation" page, and that's only available on the "Files changed" page. Nonetheless good to know :)

- How does asyncio differentiate between a task which doesn't need CPU-time
  to make progress towards completion, for example, a network request or file
  read as opposed to a task that does need CPU-time to make progress, like

>   computing n-factorial?

Reviewer 2: This sentence is really difficult to follow. Please move the examples to parentheses and restructure it a little, like this:

```suggestion
- How does asyncio differentiate between a task that doesn't need CPU-time
  (such as a network request or file read) as opposed to a task that does
  (such as computing n-factorial)?
```

Author: Mmm agreed. Done.

> - How would I go about writing my own asynchronous variant of some operation?
>   Something like an async sleep, database request, and so on.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- How to write an asynchronous variant of an operation, such as
  an async sleep or database request.
```

--------------------------------------------
A conceptual overview part 1: the high-level
--------------------------------------------

In part 1, we'll cover the main, high-level building blocks of asyncio: the
event loop, coroutine functions, coroutine objects, tasks and ``await``.

==========
Event Loop
==========

Everything in asyncio happens relative to the event loop.
It's the star of the show.

> It's kind of like an orchestra conductor or military general.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
It's like an orchestra conductor.
```

Reviewer 4: Also, using idioms (like the 2 above) is not great from the „Simple language” perspective, especially since this is somewhat a tutorial.

It's behind the scenes managing resources.

> Some power is explicitly granted to it, but a lot of its ability to get things
> done comes from the respect and cooperation of its subordinates.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Some power is explicitly granted to it, but a lot of its ability to get things
done comes from the respect and cooperation of its users.
```

Author: "users" feels a bit odd to me here. What do you think of something like "team mates" instead?

Reviewer 5: Teammates works well. Good suggestion.

Author: Right on. Done 👍

Author: I think this is done, so I'm marking as resolved.

In more technical terms, the event loop contains a queue of tasks to be run.
Some tasks are added directly by you, and some indirectly by asyncio.

> The event loop pops a task from the queue and invokes it (or gives it control),

Reviewer 2: This needs to be in scare quotes, otherwise it reads as introducing a difference between invoking and giving control to a task.
```suggestion
The event loop pops a task from the queue and invokes it (or "gives it control"),
```

Author: Done 👍

similar to calling a function, then that task runs.
Once it pauses or completes, it returns control to the event loop.

> The event loop will then move on to the next task in its queue and invoke it.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure the distinction is too important, but I could see all this use of the word "task" being confusing. We're talking about all coroutines in the event loop, right? "task" should refer to `asyncio.Task`, not coroutines.

Reviewer 5: I agree with @ZeroIntensity that task is confusing. If you find coroutine confusing, let's avoid some of the jargon and use "operation" or "instruction".

Author: Hm. I kind of like the use of task here under its traditional (non-asyncio) definition: "a piece of work to be done or undertaken.". That way, this paragraph is somewhat technically accurate for more knowledgeable readers and still plainly parseable for those who are not. 

I did modify the first sentence a bit to make the definition more explicit. Let me know what y'all think. I'm also open to completely nixing the use of task if you still don't like it. I'm not sure about using operation nor instruction since, to me, they imply a single action. But maybe "job" makes sense?

Modification: In more technical terms, the event loop contains a queue of tasks (or "chunks of work") to be run.

Reviewer 2: I'd be fine with "job". I think "task" is a bad idea because it can be confused with `asyncio.Task`.

Author: Done 👍

This process repeats indefinitely.
Even if the queue is empty, the event loop continues to cycle (somewhat aimlessly).

Effective execution relies on tasks sharing well: a greedy task could hog
control and leave the other tasks to starve, rendering the overall event loop
approach rather useless.

::

    import asyncio

    # This creates an event loop and indefinitely cycles through
    # its queue of tasks.
    event_loop = asyncio.new_event_loop()
    event_loop.run_forever()

=====================================
Asynchronous Functions and Coroutines
=====================================

> This is a regular 'ol Python function::

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
This is a basic Python function::
```

Author: I do like to make it a bit playful. What do you think of "basic, boring" as that should be clearer/simpler but also contrasts nicely with the "special" later on.

Author: Let me know what ya think!

    def hello_printer():
        print(
            "Hi, I am a lowly, simple printer, though I have all I "

>             "need in life -- \nfresh paper and a loving octopus-wife."

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
            "need in life -- \nfresh paper and an octopus friend."
```

Reviewer 2: I think the point here is that it rhymes. We could lean into some Monty Python references instead if people don't like it.

Author: I find the former to be a bit more fun & engaging. Is there a particular reason you'd like to change it?

Reviewer 5: I find it needlessly gendered.

Author: I see. I've reworked to still be humorous but un-gendered. 

"Hi, I am a lowly, simple printer, though I have all I need in life -- fresh paper and my dearly beloved octopus partner in crime."

Author: I think this is done, so I'm marking as resolved.

        )

Calling a regular function invokes its logic or body::

    >>> hello_printer()
    Hi, I am a lowly, simple printer, though I have all I need in life --

>     fresh paper and a loving octopus-wife.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    fresh paper and an octopus friend.
```

Author: I think this has been addressed :)

    >>>

The :ref:`async def <async def>`, as opposed to just a plain ``def``, makes

> this an asynchronous function (or coroutine function).

Reviewer 2: Again, scare quotes. Scare quotes need to be used when we're introducing a different term for the same thing. Otherwise, it reads as introducing an alternative concept (here, it looks like there's a different between "asynchronous functions" and "coroutine functions").
```suggestion
this an asynchronous function (or "coroutine function").
```

Author: Done 👍

Calling it creates and returns a :ref:`coroutine <coroutine>` object.

::

>     async def special_fella(magic_number: int):

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    async def special_fella(magic_number):
```

Reviewer 5: Please change `special_fella` to `special_function` here and in future references.

Author: Could you share your reasoning? I rather like `special_fella` for two reasons. First, it relates to what the function does/prints-out and is a bit goofy :). Second, I have something of a pet peeve when documentation names a function: "function" and so forth. It can be confusing trying to differentiate what's crucial syntax from customizable text, e.g. `def func()`, especially if you're new to whatever is being introduced.

Reviewer 5: Again, it is needlessly gendered. Please find something different.

Author: Gotcha. Made it a loudmouth penguin haha :)

Author: I think this is done, so I'm marking as resolved.

        print(
            "I am a super special function. Far cooler than that printer. "
            f"By the way, my lucky number is: {magic_number}."
        )

Note that calling it does not execute the function::

    >>> special_fella(magic_number=3)
    <coroutine object special_fella at 0x104ed2740>
    >>>

> The terms "asynchronous function" (or "coroutine function") and "coroutine object"

Reviewer 2: We just introduced "coroutine function" above:
```suggestion
The terms "asynchronous function" and "coroutine object"
```

Author: Done 👍

are often conflated as coroutine.
That can be confusing!
In this article, coroutine will exclusively mean "coroutine object" -- the
thing produced by executing a coroutine function.

That coroutine represents the function's body or logic.

> A coroutine has to be explicitly started; again, merely creating the coroutine

Reviewer 2: We switch between a definite and indefinite article here, making it ambigious. For the first sentence, let's talk about it in an abstract context:
```suggestion
A coroutine represents a function's body or logic.
A coroutine has to be explicitly started; again, merely creating the coroutine
```

Author: Done 👍

does not start it.
Notably, the coroutine can be paused and resumed at various points within the
function's body.
That pausing and resuming ability is what allows for asynchronous behavior!

Coroutines and coroutine functions were built by leveraging the functionality

> of generators and generator functions.

Reviewer 2: Let's link to the glossary terms:

```suggestion
of :term:`generators <generator iterator>` and :term:`generator functions <generator>`.
```

Author: Done 👍

> Recall, a generator function is a function that ``yield``\s, like this one::

Reviewer 2: Little suggestion:
```suggestion
Recall, a generator function is a function that uses :keyword:`yield`, like this one::
```

Author: Done 👍

    def get_random_number():
        # This would be a bad random number generator!
        print("Hi")
        yield 1
        print("Hello")
        yield 7
        print("Howdy")
        yield 4
        ...

> Like, a coroutine function, invoking a generator function does not run it.

Reviewer 2: 1. I'm not sure what "like" is supposed to mean here. I think you want "Similar to".
2. "invoking" is probably a bad term, because that typically refers to `await` in the context of async. Let's use "calling".
```suggestion
Similar to a coroutine function, calling a generator function does not run it.
```

Author: Yep. Done 👍

Instead, it provides a generator object::

    >>> get_random_number()
    <generator object get_random_number at 0x1048671c0>

>     >>>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Author: Done 👍

> You can "invoke" or proceed to the next ``yield`` of a generator by using the

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
You can proceed to the next ``yield`` of a generator by using the
```

built-in function :func:`next`.
In other words, the generator runs, then pauses.
For example::

    >>> generator = get_random_number()
    >>> next(generator)
    Hi
    1
    >>> next(generator)
    Hello
    7

=====
Tasks
=====

Roughly speaking, :ref:`tasks <asyncio-task-obj>` are coroutines (not coroutine
functions) tied to an event loop.
A task also maintains a list of callback functions whose importance will become
clear in a moment when we discuss ``await``.
The recommended way to create tasks is via :func:`asyncio.create_task`.
Creating a task automatically adds it to the event loop's queue of tasks.

> Since there's only one event loop (in each thread), ``asyncio`` takes care of

Reviewer 2: We should be consistent about whether "asyncio" is in a codeblock or not. It hasn't been in one so far.

Author: I think it makes sense to have in a code block. Have updated all "asyncio" to be that way. Except for "asyncio" when it appears in a section title.

> associating the task with the event loop for you. That is, there's no need

Reviewer 2: "that is" doesn't make much sense to me at the start of a sentence. Let's use "as such":
```suggestion
associating the task with the event loop for you. As such, there's no need
```

Author: Done 👍

to specify the event loop.

::

    # This creates a Task object and puts it on the event loop's queue.

>     special_task = asyncio.create_task(coro=special_fella(magic_number=5))

Reviewer 5: Again, replace `special_fella` with `special_function`

Author: I think this has been addressed 👍

=====
await
=====

:keyword:`await` is a Python keyword that's commonly used in one of two
different ways::

    await task
    await coroutine

> Unfortunately, it actually does matter which type of object await is applied to.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Unfortunately, it does matter which type of object is awaited.
```

``await``\ ing a task will cede control from the current task or coroutine to
the event loop.

> And while doing so, add a callback to the awaited task's list of callbacks

Reviewer 2: "add" is missing a subject. Either add "it" before it or combine this with the previous sentence.

Reviewer 5: The event loop adds a ...

Author: Oops yep. Changed to: "adds a".

indicating it should resume the current task/coroutine when it (the
``await``\ ed one) finishes.

> In other words, when that awaited task finishes, it adds the original task

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
In other words, when that awaited task finishes, the original task is added
```

back to the event loops queue.

> In practice, it's slightly more convoluted, but not by much.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
In practice, it's slightly more complex, but this provides a basic mental model.
```

Author: I liked the "but not by much" to keep readers from feeling intimidated. What do you think of doing this?

"This is a basic, yet reliable mental model. In practice, it's slightly more complex, but not by much."

Author: Done 👍

Author: I think this is done, so I'm marking as resolved.

In part 2, we'll walk through the details that make this possible.

**Unlike tasks, awaiting a coroutine does not cede control!**
Wrapping a coroutine in a task first, then ``await``\ ing that would cede control.
The behavior of ``await coroutine`` is effectively the same as invoking a regular,

> synchronous Python function.

Reviewer 5: Let's be a bit more specific here. As a reader, I am left with these questions:
- What is ceding control, and to what?
- Why is ``await coroutine``'s behavior the same as a synchronous function?

Author: Mmm, gotcha. I'll think about a good way to address your first point. As to the second, I also have that question!
https://github.com/python/cpython/pull/137215#discussion_r2240628663

I wonder if someone here might have the answer?

Reviewer 2: I responded to that comment. It's not totally the same as a synchronous function, as an `await task` inside the coroutine will yield control to the event loop.

Author: In response to that first one, modified to:

"**Unlike tasks, awaiting a coroutine does not hand control back to the event
loop!**"

The event loop then works through its queue, calling ``coro_b()`` and then
``coro_a()`` before resuming the coroutine ``main()``.

.. code-block:: none

    I am coro_b(). I sure hope no one hogs the event loop...
    I am coro_a(). Hi!
    I am coro_a(). Hi!
    I am coro_a(). Hi!

------------------------------------------------
A conceptual overview part 2: the nuts and bolts
------------------------------------------------

Part 2 goes into detail on the mechanisms asyncio uses to manage control flow.
This is where the magic happens.
You'll come away from this section knowing what await does behind the scenes
and how to make your own asynchronous operators.

================================================
coroutine.send(), await, yield and StopIteration
================================================

asyncio leverages 4 components to pass around control.

:meth:`coroutine.send(arg) <generator.send>` is the method used to start or resume a coroutine.
If the coroutine was paused and is now being resumed, the argument ``arg``
will be sent in as the return value of the ``yield`` statement which originally
paused it.

> If the coroutine is being started, as opposed to resumed, ``arg`` must be None.

Reviewer 2: `None` should be in a codeblock:
```suggestion
If the coroutine is being started, as opposed to resumed, ``arg`` must be ``None``.
```

Author: Done 👍

:ref:`yield <yieldexpr>`, like usual, pauses execution and returns control to the caller.
In the example below, the ``yield`` is on line 3 and the caller is

> ``... = await rock`` on line 11.

Reviewer 2: What's the point of this sentence? The reader can see which line has the `yield` and `await`.

Author: The sentence is meant to emphasize how `await` acts as a caller. And where control pauses/returns from. I see how that emphasis is muddled by the current phrasing.

I rewrote to:
In the example below, the ``yield``, on line 3, is called by ``... = await rock`` on line 11.

> Generally, ``await`` calls the ``__await__`` method of the given object.

Reviewer 2: Link to `__await__`:
```suggestion
Generally, ``await`` calls the :meth:`~object.__await__` method of the given object.
```

(The leading `~` makes it so it shows up as `__await__` without the leading `object.` prefix in the rendered content.)

Author: Done 👍  and yep, thanks :)

> ``await`` also does one more very special thing: it propagates (or passes along)

Reviewer 2: Scare quotes:
```suggestion
``await`` also does one more very special thing: it propagates (or "passes along")
```

Author: Done 👍

> any yields it receives up the call-chain.

Reviewer 2: `yield` is in reference to code:
```suggestion
any ``yield``\ s it receives up the call-chain.
```

Author: Done 👍

In this case, that's back to ``... = coroutine.send(None)`` on line 16.

The coroutine is resumed via the ``coroutine.send(42)`` call on line 21.
The coroutine picks back up from where it ``yield``\ ed (or paused) on line 3
and executes the remaining statements in its body.
When a coroutine finishes, it raises a :exc:`StopIteration` exception with the

> return value attached as an attribute.

Reviewer 2: Instead of "an attribute", let's point to the actual `value`:
```suggestion
return value attached as :attr:`~StopIteration.value`.
```

Author: Done 👍

Author: Actually, modified slightly because it read a bit weird:

... with the return value attached as [value](https://docs.python.org/3/library/exceptions.html#StopIteration.value).

... with the return value attached in the [value](https://docs.python.org/3/library/exceptions.html#StopIteration.value) attribute.

    6
    7   async def main():
    8       print("Beginning coroutine main().")
    9       rock = Rock()
    10      print("Awaiting rock...")
    11      value_from_rock = await rock
    12      print(f"Coroutine received value: {value_from_rock} from rock.")
    13      return 23
    14
    15  coroutine = main()
    16  intermediate_result = coroutine.send(None)
    17  print(f"Coroutine paused and returned intermediate value: {intermediate_result}.")
    18
    19  print(f"Resuming coroutine and sending in value: 42.")
    20  try:
    21      coroutine.send(42)
    22  except StopIteration as e:
    23      returned_value = e.value
    24  print(f"Coroutine main() finished and provided value: {returned_value}.")

That snippet produces this output:

.. code-block:: none

    Beginning coroutine main().
    Awaiting rock...
    Coroutine paused and returned intermediate value: 7.
    Resuming coroutine and sending in value: 42.
    Rock.__await__ resuming with value: 42.
    Coroutine received value: 42 from rock.
    Coroutine main() finished and provided value: 23.

It's worth pausing for a moment here and making sure you followed the various

> ways control flow and values were passed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ways that control flow and values were passed.
```

Reviewer 3: Not a native speaker but I think this one is correct.

Author: Done 👍

The only way to yield (or effectively cede control) from a coroutine is to
``await`` an object that ``yield``\ s in its ``__await__`` method.

> That might sound odd to you. Frankly, it was to me too. You might be thinking:

Reviewer 2: Please remove the personal reference here.
```suggestion
That might sound odd to you. You might be thinking:
```

    1. What about a ``yield`` directly within the coroutine? The coroutine becomes
    an async generator, a different beast entirely.

    2. What about a ``yield from`` within the coroutine to a function that yields
    (that is, a plain generator)?
    ``SyntaxError: yield from not allowed in a coroutine.``
    This was intentionally designed for the sake of simplicity -- mandating only
    one way of using coroutines. Originally ``yield`` was actually barred as well,
    but was re-accepted to allow for async generators.
    Despite that, ``yield from`` and ``await`` effectively do the same thing.

=======
Futures
=======

A :ref:`future <asyncio-future-obj>` is an object meant to represent a
computation's status and result.
The term is a nod to the idea of something still to come or not yet happened,
and the object is a way to keep an eye on that something.

A future has a few important attributes. One is its state which can be either
"pending", "cancelled" or "done".
Another is its result which is set when the state transitions to done.
Unlike a coroutine, a future does not represent the actual computation to be

> done; instead it represents the status and result of that computation, kind of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
done; instead, it represents the status and result of that computation, kind of
```

Author: Done 👍

> like a status light (red, yellow or green) or indicator.

Reviewer 2: Minor, but I think this reads slightly better:
```suggestion
like a status or indicator light (red, yellow or green).
```

> :class:`asyncio.Task` subclasses :class:`asyncio.Future` in order to gain these various capabilities.

Reviewer 2: If you dislike the `asyncio.` prefix, you can add `~` to the begin to render them as `Task` and `Future` (while still being clickable) in the documentation.

Reviewer 3: This line also exceeds 80 chars count.

Author: No, I actually kinda like the prefix here. And noted, wrapped the line.

The prior section said tasks store a list of callbacks, which wasn't entirely true.
It's actually the ``Future`` class that implements this logic which ``Task``
inherits.

> Futures may be also used directly that is, not via tasks.

Reviewer 2: What is "that is" referring to here?

Author: Modified to: "Futures may also be used directly (not via tasks)."

Tasks mark themselves as done when their coroutine is complete.
Futures are much more versatile and will be marked as done when you say so.
In this way, they're the flexible interface for you to make your own conditions
for waiting and resuming.

========================
A homemade asyncio.sleep
========================

We'll go through an example of how you could leverage a future to create your

> own variant of asynchronous sleep -- :func:`asyncio.sleep`.

Reviewer 3: The section is about a custom `asyncio.sleep`, which is then refers to `async_sleep` but it's only mentioned first in a function call. Could you explicitly mention here that we will create our custom asynchronous sleep function called `async_sleep` which mimics `asyncio.sleep`?

Author: Ahh, gotcha. I reworked this sentence to make that clearer. 

We'll go through an example of how you could leverage a future to create your
own variant of asynchronous sleep (``async_sleep``) which mimics 
:func:`asyncio.sleep`.

Author: I think this is done, so I'm marking as resolved.

This snippet puts a few tasks on the event loop's queue and then ``await``\ s a
coroutine wrapped in a task: ``async_sleep(3)``.
We want that task to finish only after three seconds have elapsed, but without
preventing other tasks from running.

::

    async def other_work():
        print(f"I am worker. Work work.")

    async def main():
        # Add a few other tasks to the event loop, so there's something
        # to do while asynchronously sleeping.
        work_tasks = [
            asyncio.create_task(other_work()),
            asyncio.create_task(other_work()),
            asyncio.create_task(other_work())
        ]
        print(
            "Beginning asynchronous sleep at time: "
            f"{datetime.datetime.now().strftime("%H:%M:%S")}."
        )
        await asyncio.create_task(async_sleep(3))
        print(
            "Done asynchronous sleep at time: "
            f"{datetime.datetime.now().strftime("%H:%M:%S")}."
        )
        # asyncio.gather effectively awaits each task in the collection.
        await asyncio.gather(*work_tasks)

Below, we use a future to enable custom control over when that task will be marked
as done.

> If ``future.set_result()`` (the method responsible for marking that future as

Reviewer 2: You can link to `asyncio.Future.set_result`:
```suggestion
If :meth:`future.set_result() <asyncio.Future.set_result>` (the method responsible for marking that future as
```

Author: Done 👍

done) is never called, then this task will never finish.
We've also enlisted the help of another task, which we'll see in a moment, that
will monitor how much time has elapsed and accordingly call
``future.set_result()``.

::

    async def async_sleep(seconds: float):
        future = asyncio.Future()
        time_to_wake = time.time() + seconds
        # Add the watcher-task to the event loop.
        watcher_task = asyncio.create_task(_sleep_watcher(future, time_to_wake))
        # Block until the future is marked as done.
        await future

> We'll use a rather bare object ``YieldToEventLoop()`` to ``yield`` from its

Reviewer 2: 1. `YieldToEventLoop()` should be in an appositive.
2. We go from "a" to "its" when referencing `YieldToEventLoop`. I think we can do without the "it".
```suggestion
We'll use a rather bare object, ``YieldToEventLoop()``, to ``yield`` from
```

Author: Done 👍

``__await__`` in order to cede control to the event loop.
This is effectively the same as calling ``asyncio.sleep(0)``, but this approach
offers more clarity, not to mention it's somewhat cheating to use
``asyncio.sleep`` when showcasing how to implement it!

As usual, the event loop cycles through its queue of tasks, giving them control
and receiving control back when they pause or finish.

> The ``watcher_task``, which runs the coroutine: ``_sleep_watcher(...)`` will be

Reviewer 2: The colon makes no sense here:
```suggestion
The ``watcher_task``, which runs the coroutine (``_sleep_watcher(...)``), will be
```

Author: Mmm. The double parens looks a bit cluttered. But modified to remove the colon:

"The ``watcher_task``, which runs the coroutine ``_sleep_watcher(...)``, will be invoked once per full cycle of the event loop's queue."

invoked once per full cycle of the event loop's queue.
On each resumption, it'll check the time and if not enough has elapsed, then it'll
pause once again and return control to the event loop.
Eventually, enough time will have elapsed, and ``_sleep_watcher(...)`` will
mark the future as done, and then itself finish too by breaking out of the
infinite ``while`` loop.
Given this helper task is only invoked once per cycle of the event loop's queue,
you'd be correct to note that this asynchronous sleep will sleep *at least*
three seconds, rather than exactly three seconds.

> Note, this is also of true of: ``asyncio.sleep``.

Reviewer 2: No colon here, and I don't think we need a comma after "note".
```suggestion
Note that this is also of true of ``asyncio.sleep``.
```

Author: Done 👍

::

    class YieldToEventLoop:
        def __await__(self):
            yield

>     async def _sleep_watcher(future: asyncio.Future, time_to_wake: float):

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    async def _sleep_watcher(future, time_to_wake):
```

Author: I somewhat like type hints. Is there a reason you'd prefer to remove them here?

Reviewer 2: I like them too, but we're missing return-value type hints (so they're incomplete), and we generally try to avoid putting type hints in the docs anyway because they can go out-of-date when we change things.

Author: I do feel the typehints serve some use here though. They remind the reader of the types of each passed argument so they don't need to scroll back and check. And I hear you that there's no return typehints, but I'm not sure a couple `-> None`'s will be particularly insightful. 

Granted, the objects are somewhat obvious based on the name. I went ahead and removed the typehints.

PS
> I don't know what happens with the review UI, but I'll mention the things I still see:

I've been tripped up more times than I care to admit by the Github UI! Welcome to the club :)

Author: I think this is done, so I'm marking as resolved.

Reviewer 3: Ah yes, sorry for not replying sooner. All other comments were addressed but since you asked a question here I'll reply:

- Type hints force to reader to parse them. Since the purpose of this page is mainly focused on asyncio, well-named parameters should be sufficient to guess the type of the parameter. And I think we can assume that the reader guesses that "future" is a Future object (otherwise I don't know what kind of other object it could be, maybe a callable, but we would have called the parameter "func" instead).
- It makes the line much longer (so combined with good names that are usally real words, we reach the 80 chars limit quite fast). It's also an accessibility issue sometimes (not everyone has wide screens or a 100% zoom level).
- mypy would complain about incomplete hints depending on the configuration, so I feel that it's better to either fully-type or don't.
- (major reason) we usually don't add type hints in the docs, except for typing-related topics or when we're documenting a complex interface (e.g., sys.monitoring). Otherwise, we usually have non-typed examples.

Author: Ah, I see. Thank you!

        while True:
            if time.time() >= time_to_wake:
                # This marks the future as done.
                future.set_result(None)
                break
            else:
                await YieldToEventLoop()

Here is the full program's output:

.. code-block:: none

    $ python custom-async-sleep.py
    Beginning asynchronous sleep at time: 14:52:22.
    I am worker. Work work.
    I am worker. Work work.
    I am worker. Work work.
    Done asynchronous sleep at time: 14:52:25.

You might feel this implementation of asynchronous sleep was unnecessarily
convoluted.
And, well, it was.
The example was meant to showcase the versatility of futures with a simple
example that could be mimicked for more complex needs.
For reference, you could implement it without futures, like so::

    async def simpler_async_sleep(seconds):
        time_to_wake = time.time() + seconds
        while True:
            if time.time() >= time_to_wake:
                return
            else:
                await YieldToEventLoop()

> That's all for now. Hopefully you're ready to more confidently dive into some

Reviewer 2: I think it would flow better if we added "but" to join with the previous sentence.
```suggestion
But, that's all for now. Hopefully you're ready to more confidently dive into some
```

Author: Done 👍

You'll be comfortably able to answer these questions by the end of this
article.

- What's happening behind the scenes when an object is ``await``\ ed?
- How does ``asyncio`` differentiate between a task which doesn't need CPU-time
  (such as a network request or file read) as opposed to a task that does
  (such as computing n-factorial)?
- How would I go about writing my own asynchronous variant of some operation?
  Something like an async sleep, database request, and so on.

--------------------------------------------
A conceptual overview part 1: the high-level
--------------------------------------------

In part 1, we'll cover the main, high-level building blocks of ``asyncio``:
the event loop, coroutine functions, coroutine objects, tasks and ``await``.

==========
Event Loop
==========

Everything in ``asyncio`` happens relative to the event loop.
It's the star of the show.
It's like an orchestra conductor.
It's behind the scenes managing resources.
Some power is explicitly granted to it, but a lot of its ability to get things
done comes from the respect and cooperation of its teammates.

In more technical terms, the event loop contains a queue of jobs (or "chunks

> of work") to be run.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure "chunks of work" is a useful term to introduce. I haven't heard that one before.

Author: Mmm fair enough. Removed 👍

Some jobs are added directly by you, and some indirectly by ``asyncio``.
The event loop pops a job from the queue and invokes it (or "gives it control"),
similar to calling a function, then that job runs.
Once it pauses or completes, it returns control to the event loop.
The event loop will then move on to the next job in its queue and invoke it.
This process repeats indefinitely.
Even if the queue is empty, the event loop continues to cycle (somewhat
aimlessly).

Effective execution relies on tasks sharing well: a greedy job could hog
control and leave the other tasks to starve, rendering the overall event loop
approach rather useless.

::

   import asyncio

   # This creates an event loop and indefinitely cycles through
   # its queue of tasks.
   event_loop = asyncio.new_event_loop()
   event_loop.run_forever()

=====================================
Asynchronous Functions and Coroutines
=====================================

This is a regular 'ol Python function::

   def hello_printer():
       print(

>            "Hi, I am a lowly, simple printer, though I have all I "

Reviewer 6: Can we stick to something simple like just hello world?

Author: I think the occasional bit of goofiness or fun makes the overall piece more engaging and can offer a nice reprieve in the course of the read. In that light, what do you think?

Reviewer 6: I prefer examples to be simple and concise, here we just want to print something and hello world is the obvious choice, the main page for asyncio does the same https://docs.python.org/3.13/library/asyncio.html

Author: I believe HOWTO's (explainers) are meant to have room to be more casual and engaging rather than sterile and basic.

of :term:`generators <generator iterator>` and
:term:`generator functions <generator>`.
Recall, a generator function is a function that :keyword:`yield`\s, like this one::

   def get_random_number():
       # This would be a bad random number generator!
       print("Hi")
       yield 1
       print("Hello")
       yield 7
       print("Howdy")
       yield 4
       ...

Similar to a coroutine function, calling a generator function does not run it.
Instead, it provides a generator object::

   >>> get_random_number()
   <generator object get_random_number at 0x1048671c0>

You can proceed to the next ``yield`` of a generator by using the
built-in function :func:`next`.
In other words, the generator runs, then pauses.
For example::

   >>> generator = get_random_number()
   >>> next(generator)
   Hi
   1
   >>> next(generator)
   Hello
   7

=====
Tasks
=====

Roughly speaking, :ref:`tasks <asyncio-task-obj>` are coroutines (not coroutine
functions) tied to an event loop.
A task also maintains a list of callback functions whose importance will become
clear in a moment when we discuss ``await``.
The recommended way to create tasks is via :func:`asyncio.create_task`.

> Creating a task automatically adds it to the event loop's queue of tasks.

Reviewer 6: There is no such queue in practice, I would prefer to stick to the more correct terminology "schedules the task to be executed by event loop"

Author: Hm. I have two thoughts here. First, I think the language: "schedules the task...", is somewhat vague on the "how" and doesn't really provide any insight into the event loop. I also like how mentioning the queue subtly reinforces the idea that execution is serial (i.e. not parallel).

Second, while yes, it's not a perfect description it's pretty close! 

The Task constructor indeed uses `loop._call_soon`, which uses a thin abstraction (`Handle`) to create a callback to `Task.__step` and put it on a double ended queue of `Handle`s (`self._ready`) maintained by the event-loop. 
https://github.com/python/cpython/blob/c5cebe1b5afa58fc0ee95153a4b1905229dce7dc/Lib/asyncio/tasks.py#L112
https://github.com/python/cpython/blob/c5cebe1b5afa58fc0ee95153a4b1905229dce7dc/Lib/asyncio/base_events.py#L846-L851

The event loop maintains two queues: a double ended queue for ready `Handles` and a priority queue (`heapq`) for scheduled ones:
https://github.com/python/cpython/blob/c5cebe1b5afa58fc0ee95153a4b1905229dce7dc/Lib/asyncio/base_events.py#L423-L424
And this part pops from the ready-queue & invokes:
https://github.com/python/cpython/blob/c5cebe1b5afa58fc0ee95153a4b1905229dce7dc/Lib/asyncio/base_events.py#L2023-L2046

Reviewer 5: @kumaraditya303 As a maintainer of the asyncio module, do you have a suggested clarification?

I'm also not convinced that queue is the correct term here. I also want to be cautious that we are not encouraging manipulation of the event loop. See https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio-eventloop.html

> Application developers should typically use the high-level asyncio functions, such as [asyncio.run()](https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio-runner.html#asyncio.run), and should rarely need to reference the loop object or call its methods. This section is intended mostly for authors of lower-level code, libraries, and frameworks, who need finer control over the event loop behavior.

There's not any guarantee that the `_method`s will not be changed in the future.

Reviewer 7: > I also like how mentioning the queue subtly reinforces the idea that execution is serial (i.e. not parallel).

I would additionally say that it's useful to understand that the order of execution is predictable. Many users are under the impression that "scheduled" means unpredictable order of execution. The tasks should start executing in the order they've been added.

Author: @kumaraditya303, I'm not sure why but I think your followup comment which seems relevant here showed up independently, further down, not in this thread:

> > I'm still on the fence about using queue, and these suggestions remove reference to the concept of queue.

> I agree, using queue as the terminology here isn't completely correct so +1 to remove it.

It's somewhat difficult to constructively, meaningfully engage with this feedback. You've effectively just restated your original comment without further justification or explanation, after I pointed out how the current source code does indeed show the usage of two queues. I don't mean to come off rude, and there's honestly a decent chance I'm missing something or wrong in some way in my technical arguments. That's not uncommon! But if I am, I'd like to at least learn from it :)

And yes, you are certainly right that there is not a queue of Tasks! One is a priority queue, the other a double ended queue and they contain `Handles`. But, at the risk of stating the obvious, documentation cannot be as exacting as the code. If it was, it would *be* the code. 

@willingc - I hear you on the risks of too closely documenting private method implementation details. But I think this could be a reasonable exception. Two public methods of `BaseEventLoop` are `call_soon` and `call_later`. It's tough to imagine how those and the general behavior of an event loop could be managed by a data structure that doesn't at least resemble a queue of some type: FIFO, priority, double-ended, etc. That is to say, I think the general, abstract ideas of an event loop and a queue are pretty meaningfully, closely related.

I appreciate the caution about event loop manipulation. Though, I'm a bit wary of not explaining an idea in what's meant to be an explainer article for the risk someone might muck about with its internals. 

Now that I've addressed the specific criticisms. Here are the upsides I see of the queue analogy. It's a simple data structure that captures the idea of how the event loop is managing and orchestrating multiple jobs at once. The goal of this article is to help folks build a useful mental model, not precisely describe the _exact_ inner workings of `asyncio`. Replacing the queue comparison with a somewhat vague statement that doesn't offer insight into the event loop gives up useful explanatory power. And I'm concerned it's a step towards the somewhat classic style of tech documentation that features a series of mildly disjointed facts which provide little overall conceptual understanding of the system. 

Would reworking the language to still emphasize the conceptual analogy of a queue but with a disclaimer that this isn't *exactly* how the loop is implemented be agreeable for folks?

Reviewer 6: I suggest to stick to "schedules the task to be executed by event loop" which is used throughout the docs for a long time. See for example https://docs.python.org/3.13/library/asyncio-task.html#asyncio.create_task. I added a suggested clarification for this in review comments as @willingc  asked. 

Moreover, I would like to emphasise that we should **not** invent any new terminology here and stick to what we have been using for a long time, people have a clear mental model around that and adding new things like queue would just make it confusing than solve anything. 

Also +1 to @willingc's suggestions to remove references to queue.

Reviewer 7: > people have a clear mental model around that

But, as I mentioned above, that mental model is wrong and I've had several arguments with users who think that asyncio has an unreliable order of execution, even when all the variables are known.

Author: I hear the concern for consistency, but this HOWTO is somewhat separate from the rest of the official `asyncio` docs. And the goal of such explainer pieces is to dig into the "how" and "why" per the [dev style guide](https://devguide.python.org/documentation/style-guide/#diataxis) and the longer [Diataxis description](https://diataxis.fr/explanation/). The first sentence of that longer description is: "Explanation deepens and broadens the reader’s understanding of a subject. It brings clarity, light and context.". With that background in mind, I think it makes sense for the explainer article to go a bit deeper than the regular docs. 

Yes, adding "queue" is introducing a new idea. But, queues are among the simplest data structures there are. And even the non-programing meaning of the word closely, accurately describes the idea: "a line or sequence of people or vehicles awaiting to be attended to or to proceed."

Finally, I personally did not have a clear mental model from the current `asyncio` docs of the event loop. I got it from digging through the codebase myself and eventually finding those queue-like structures. I know a few other folks who are similarly confused.

Reviewer 5: @anordin95 Yes, I understand that you find the concept of a queue a simplified mental model for an event loop. But, in practice, a queue overly simplifies the purpose of an  event loop as it leaves out the important concept of an event loop, selecing ready coroutines. An event loop manages which coroutines are "ready" to run and schedules a "ready" coroutine to run. A queue would sequentially run items. 

Instead, the event loop at its most fundamental is a "while" loop that is responsible for managing and scheduling coroutines. asyncio's event loop abstracts away the low-level implementation. It's essentially the "traffic director" that selects which "ready" callback of all "scheduled and ready callbacks" should run.

While it is true that asyncio can execute tasks in a predictable order, it does so based on selecting among "ready" callbacks.

I've added suggestions for 2 additional see also resources (one is a video) that further explain.

Author: Yes, you're right. An event loop and a queue are not the same. I could have been clearer. But I think the idea of a queue is insightful for understanding a big part of how an event loop generally works. If you were explaining the concept of event loops to a friend, would you entirely avoid the idea of queues?

We could move towards this language around scheduling and never mention the queue. But then I think we should also mention only one job runs at a time and the rest wait in the meantime. And jobs generally, though not always, run in the order they're added to the event loop. But that just feels like a roundabout, longer way of describing what using a queue to manage jobs would look like. Like I suggested in my earlier comment, we could make it explicit that the queue is a conceptual analogy and not precise implementation?

I am quite familiar with the current implementation as I had hoped was evidenced by me citing the exact locations of the two queues and the invocation logic.

Since there's only one event loop (in each thread), ``asyncio`` takes care of
associating the task with the event loop for you. As such, there's no need
to specify the event loop.

::

   # This creates a Task object and puts it on the event loop's queue.

>    task = asyncio.create_task(coro=loudmouth_penguin(magic_number=5))

Reviewer 6: Using coro as kwarg is unnecessary

Author: Mhm, it is unnecessary. But I think a bit of redundancy can be helpful for learners.

Reviewer 2: I think it's more confusing for beginners. Ideally, they should be taught how to use `asyncio.create_task` correctly, rather than adding redundant kwargs.

Reviewer 6: asyncio predates positional only args so it allows coro as kwarg but we should not be encouraging using it, it should be used like positional arg.

Author: I think it's a stretch to say using kwargs is incorrect, but I hear y'all. I've modified like so to still reinforce the concept without using `coro=`:

```
   coroutine = loudmouth_penguin(magic_number=5)
   # This creates a Task object and puts it on the event loop's queue.
   task = asyncio.create_task(coroutine)
```

=====
await
=====

:keyword:`await` is a Python keyword that's commonly used in one of two
different ways::

   await task
   await coroutine

Unfortunately, it does matter which type of object is awaited.

``await``\ ing a task will cede control from the current task or coroutine to
the event loop.

> And while doing so, adds a callback to the awaited task's list of callbacks

Reviewer 2: This comment wasn't fully addressed; "adds" is still missing a subject.

Author: Mmm, yeah. Reworked a bit to this:

In the process of relinquishing control, the task that's giving up control 
adds a callback to the awaited task's list of callbacks
indicating it should resume the current task/coroutine when it (the
``await``\ ed one) finishes.

event loop which is why we see the output of all three ``coro_a()``
invocations before ``coro_b()``'s output:

.. code-block:: none

   I am coro_a(). Hi!
   I am coro_a(). Hi!
   I am coro_a(). Hi!
   I am coro_b(). I sure hope no one hogs the event loop...

If we change ``await coro_a()`` to ``await asyncio.create_task(coro_a())``, the
behavior changes.
The coroutine ``main()`` cedes control to the event loop with that statement.
The event loop then works through its queue, calling ``coro_b()`` and then
``coro_a()`` before resuming the coroutine ``main()``.

.. code-block:: none

   I am coro_b(). I sure hope no one hogs the event loop...
   I am coro_a(). Hi!
   I am coro_a(). Hi!
   I am coro_a(). Hi!

------------------------------------------------
A conceptual overview part 2: the nuts and bolts
------------------------------------------------

Part 2 goes into detail on the mechanisms ``asyncio`` uses to manage control flow.
This is where the magic happens.
You'll come away from this section knowing what await does behind the scenes
and how to make your own asynchronous operators.

================================================

> coroutine.send(), await, yield and StopIteration

Reviewer 6: I don't think this part belongs to docs of asyncio, coroutines are not tied to just asyncio so this should be documented somewhere else if not already done

Author: Hm. While, yes, coroutines are not a part of `asyncio`, they are a pretty crucial building block that most people likely aren't aware exists in Python until they work with `asyncio`. You could make the same technical argument about `await` and `async`, but I think the broader context they offer is useful and relevant. Furthermore, this is a HOWTO which are meant to be a bit broader in nature.

Reviewer 7: I think it's useful to understand how it works, but I'd probably rename the header to something like "How coroutines work under-the-hood".

I use similar examples for talks explaining how asyncio works, where I start by showing the more complex things that can be done with generators (that many developers are unaware of) and end up with a very simplistic approximation of an event loop, without using any async/await syntax. (I use the functions interactively in a talk, but the code examples are at: https://gist.github.com/Dreamsorcerer/5c0ddafae6eed073a90cf52fd7cfaede)

By using generators alone with no actual asyncio code though, I think I avoid misleading anybody in thinking that the syntax they see is the appropriate way to write asyncio (which I cover with a couple of points at the end with actual asyncio examples).

Author: Mmm, yeah. Renamed 👍

Author: Is this resolved?

================================================

``asyncio`` leverages 4 components to pass around control.

:meth:`coroutine.send(arg) <generator.send>` is the method used to start or resume a coroutine.
If the coroutine was paused and is now being resumed, the argument ``arg``
will be sent in as the return value of the ``yield`` statement which originally
paused it.

> If the coroutine is being started, as opposed to resumed, ``arg`` must be

Reviewer 2: "started" is a little ambigious. Let's just say "If the coroutine is being used for the first time, `arg` must be `None`."

Author: Mhm, yeah. I tweaked a bit to include the contrast with resume:

If the coroutine is being used for the first time, as opposed to being resumed, 
arg must be ``None``.

       return 23

   coroutine = main()
   intermediate_result = coroutine.send(None)
   print(f"Coroutine paused and returned intermediate value: {intermediate_result}.")

   print(f"Resuming coroutine and sending in value: 42.")
   try:
       coroutine.send(42)
   except StopIteration as e:
       returned_value = e.value
   print(f"Coroutine main() finished and provided value: {returned_value}.")

That snippet produces this output:

.. code-block:: none

   Beginning coroutine main().
   Awaiting rock...
   Coroutine paused and returned intermediate value: 7.
   Resuming coroutine and sending in value: 42.
   Rock.__await__ resuming with value: 42.
   Coroutine received value: 42 from rock.
   Coroutine main() finished and provided value: 23.

It's worth pausing for a moment here and making sure you followed the various
ways that control flow and values were passed.

The only way to yield (or effectively cede control) from a coroutine is to
``await`` an object that ``yield``\ s in its ``__await__`` method.
That might sound odd to you. You might be thinking:

   1. What about a ``yield`` directly within the coroutine? The coroutine becomes

>    an async generator, a different beast entirely.

Reviewer 2: There's probably a page about async generators you can link to.

Author: There is! Done 👍 

I did also tweak a bit to clarify async generator function and make the others consistent too.

.. _a-conceputal-overview-of-asyncio:

> ********************************
> A Conceptual Overview of asyncio
> ********************************

Reviewer 8: May I suggest linking at least one reference to `asyncio` in this document to the respective module page? Though, I suppose other mentions throughout would benefit from a similar treatment.

```suggestion
***************************************
A Conceptual Overview of :mod:`asyncio`
***************************************
```

Author: Certainly! There are many mentions of `asyncio` throughout the text and I'm concerned linking all of them would look a bit noisy. What do you think? By the way, the conclusion also links to the asyncio docs.

Reviewer 8: I don't think it's noisy. That's what markup is for. The readers are free to skip clicking on the links. Plus, browsers normally mark refs they've opened before.

Reviewer 4: Please do not overuse links, see the [devguide on the topic](https://devguide.python.org/documentation/style-guide/#links). You can escape them `!` in the text. This will still provide markup.

Author: <img width="830" height="339" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ed33418d-51df-4700-8a57-dd1c6e81bc67" />

---

I tried it out to see, but it feels a bit gratuitous to me. Obviously that's subjective though! Either way, I think it makes sense to defer to the devguide here. I've updated the various `asyncio`'s with escaped references.

Also moved the link per:
>Do not use links in section headers. They distract from the title of the section. The term will be mentioned in the paragraph text and can be linked from there.

Reviewer 8: That's fair. It's a good idea to have markup but only make a portion of them clickable.

Author: Right on. If this looks good to you, could you mark this as resolved? :)

Author: I think this is done, so I'm marking as resolved.

.. _a-conceptual-overview-of-asyncio:

****************************************
A Conceptual Overview of :mod:`!asyncio`
****************************************

> This article seeks to help you build a sturdy mental model of how :mod:`asyncio`

Reviewer 2: Minor, but instead of the word "article", let's use "page".

Reviewer 4: Or “HOWTO,” since that is specifically what it is? That is what the Unicode HOWTO does, for example.

Reviewer 2: "HOWTO" is screaming at me a little too much. I like "page".

Author: I'm actually a little hesitant. I think "article" emphasizes the style of writing and expected reading approach. Whereas "page" is much closer to other forms of documentation where you typically just jump to whatever you're looking for rather than reading each sentence one after the next.

Building on Stan's idea, I lean towards something like:

"This [HOWTO](https://docs.python.org/3/howto/index.html) article ..."

Which also gives a reference to the other HOWTO's.

Edit: Could also lowercase the howto, but that might be confused with how-to style articles which are a different part of the Diataxis documentation framework. And the link might make clearer that the reader is not being screamed at, but introduced to a quirky descriptor.

Reviewer 4: I see Peters point[^1], I think linking is overkill, however. This is what Unicode has:

> This HOWTO discusses Python’s support for the Unicode specification for representing textual data

[^1]: https://xkcd.com/3054/

Author: I actually rather like the link. I wasn't aware Python even had this style of documentation (or that other HOWTOs already existed), despite having used the language for over 10 years, until I submitted the Github Issue a week ago. I think the kind of person who likes fundamental explainers is going to be happy to find more!

Author: Are folks ok with this resolution?

.. _a-conceptual-overview-of-asyncio:

****************************************
A Conceptual Overview of :mod:`!asyncio`
****************************************

This article seeks to help you build a sturdy mental model of how :mod:`asyncio`
fundamentally works, helping you understand the how and why behind the
recommended patterns.

You might be curious about some key :mod:`!asyncio` concepts.
You'll be comfortably able to answer these questions by the end of this

> article.

Reviewer 2: There should be a colon here:
```suggestion
article:
```

> - What's happening behind the scenes when an object is ``await``\ ed?

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- What's happening behind the scenes when an object is awaited?
```

Author: I think it was this way originally. If I recall correctly @ZeroIntensity suggested the switch. I now actually have a slight preference for ``await``ed too, but I don't feel very strongly. Y'all should decide.

Reviewer 2: My original suggestion was to remove the dash from "await-ed". No preference from me on whether `await` should be in a code block.

Author: Oh, shoot. My bad! 

Turns out the only impediment was my bad memory lol. Will move the various occurrences out of code blocks 👍

Reviewer 4: I’m not a fan of this since when translating most languages will have to restructure the sentence to preserve the keyword.

Reviewer 5: @StanFromIreland Do you prefer keeping the backticks?  I don't feel that strongly about it. If maintaining the backticks works better for translations, I'm cool with keeping them.

Reviewer 4: My apologies, my comment is not very clear. I am referring to the existing one with the backticks, since it can not be translated, and it is part of the sentence, it will not make sense in another language. The translator will either have to restructure the sentence to make it somewhat work, or juggle it around (e.g. in parenthesis) as they won't want to remove it. Your suggestion is simpler to translate.

Reviewer 5: So to be clear, we are removing the backticks. Correct?

Reviewer 4: (Apologies again, I should work on my clarity) Yes, I am in favour of removing them.

Author: Ok. The various ``await``ings, ``await``eds, etc. have had their backticks removed 👍 

Marking this as resolved.

- How does :mod:`!asyncio` differentiate between a task which doesn't need
  CPU-time (such as a network request or file read) as opposed to a task that
  does (such as computing n-factorial)?
- How would I go about writing my own asynchronous variant of some operation?
  Something like an async sleep, database request, and so on.

.. seealso::

   The `guide <https://github.com/anordin95/a-conceptual-overview-of-asyncio/

>    tree/main>`_ which inspired this HOWTO article.

Reviewer 2: I think this should be "that", right?
```suggestion
   tree/main>`_ that inspired this HOWTO article.
```

--------------------------------------------
A conceptual overview part 1: the high-level
--------------------------------------------

In part 1, we'll cover the main, high-level building blocks of :mod:`!asyncio`:
the event loop, coroutine functions, coroutine objects, tasks and ``await``.

==========
Event Loop
==========

Everything in :mod:`!asyncio` happens relative to the event loop.
It's the star of the show.
It's like an orchestra conductor.
It's behind the scenes managing resources.
Some power is explicitly granted to it, but a lot of its ability to get things
done comes from the respect and cooperation of its teammates.

In more technical terms, the event loop contains a queue of jobs to be run.
Some jobs are added directly by you, and some indirectly by :mod:`!asyncio`.
The event loop pops a job from the queue and invokes it (or "gives it control"),

> similar to calling a function, then that job runs.

Reviewer 2: Tiny grammar nitpick:
```suggestion
similar to calling a function, and then that job runs.
```

Once it pauses or completes, it returns control to the event loop.
The event loop will then move on to the next job in its queue and invoke it.
This process repeats indefinitely.
Even if the queue is empty, the event loop continues to cycle (somewhat

> aimlessly).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Conceptually, the event loop manages jobs to be run.
Some jobs are added by you, and some indirectly by :mod:`!asyncio`.
The event loop selects a job and invokes it (or "gives it control"),
similar to calling a function, and then that job runs.
Once the job pauses or completes, it returns control to the event loop.
The event loop will then move on to the next job and invoke it.
This process repeats indefinitely.
Even if no jobs are ready to run, the event loop continues to cycle (somewhat
aimlessly).
```

> Effective execution relies on tasks sharing well; a greedy job could hog

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Effective execution relies on tasks sharing well and cooperating; a greedy job could hog
```

> Effective execution relies on tasks sharing well: a greedy job could hog

Reviewer 2: I think this should be a semicolon, not a colon:
```suggestion
Effective execution relies on tasks sharing well; a greedy job could hog
```

control and leave the other tasks to starve, rendering the overall event loop
approach rather useless.

::

   import asyncio

   # This creates an event loop and indefinitely cycles through

>    # its queue of tasks.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
   # This creates an event loop and indefinitely cycles through its available work tasks.
```

Author: nit: changed to "... its **collection** of **jobs**". 

I'm concerned "available" discounts tasks which are scheduled for later or those which are blocked on other worl.

   event_loop = asyncio.new_event_loop()
   event_loop.run_forever()

=====================================
Asynchronous Functions and Coroutines
=====================================

This is a basic, boring Python function::

   def hello_printer():
       print(
           "Hi, I am a lowly, simple printer, though I have all I "
           "need in life -- \nfresh paper and my dearly beloved octopus "
           "partner in crime."
       )

Calling a regular function invokes its logic or body::

   >>> hello_printer()
   Hi, I am a lowly, simple printer, though I have all I need in life --
   fresh paper and my dearly beloved octopus partner in crime.

The :ref:`async def <async def>`, as opposed to just a plain ``def``, makes
this an asynchronous function (or "coroutine function").
Calling it creates and returns a :ref:`coroutine <coroutine>` object.

::

   async def loudmouth_penguin(magic_number: int):
       print(
        "I am a super special talking penguin. Far cooler than that printer. "
        f"By the way, my lucky number is: {magic_number}."
       )

> Note that calling it does not execute the function::

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Calling the async function, `loudmouth_penguin`, does not execute the print statement;
instead, it creates a coroutine object::
```

as coroutine.
That can be confusing!
In this article, coroutine specifically refers to a coroutine object, or more
precisely, an instance of :data:`types.CoroutineType` (native coroutine).
Note that coroutines can also exist as instances of
:class:`collections.abc.Coroutine` -- a distinction that matters for type
checking.

A coroutine represents the function's body or logic.
A coroutine has to be explicitly started; again, merely creating the coroutine
does not start it.
Notably, the coroutine can be paused and resumed at various points within the
function's body.
That pausing and resuming ability is what allows for asynchronous behavior!

Coroutines and coroutine functions were built by leveraging the functionality
of :term:`generators <generator iterator>` and
:term:`generator functions <generator>`.
Recall, a generator function is a function that :keyword:`yield`\s, like this
one::

   def get_random_number():
       # This would be a bad random number generator!
       print("Hi")
       yield 1
       print("Hello")
       yield 7
       print("Howdy")
       yield 4
       ...

Similar to a coroutine function, calling a generator function does not run it.

> Instead, it provides a generator object::

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Instead, it creates a generator object::
```

   >>> get_random_number()
   <generator object get_random_number at 0x1048671c0>

You can proceed to the next ``yield`` of a generator by using the
built-in function :func:`next`.
In other words, the generator runs, then pauses.
For example::

   >>> generator = get_random_number()
   >>> next(generator)
   Hi
   1
   >>> next(generator)
   Hello
   7

=====
Tasks
=====

Roughly speaking, :ref:`tasks <asyncio-task-obj>` are coroutines (not coroutine
functions) tied to an event loop.
A task also maintains a list of callback functions whose importance will become

> clear in a moment when we discuss ``await``.

Reviewer 2: I think I suggested this before but the commit may have been lost:
```suggestion
clear in a moment when we discuss :keyword:`await`.
```

Author: I purposely held off linking to `await` until the `await` section which comes next. With that in mind, what do you think of leaving this as is?

Reviewer 2: I'd like to include the reference. The user doesn't have to click on it, but they can if they want some more general information rather than information suited for an asyncio tutorial.

Author: Ok. Done 👍

Author: I think this is done, so I'm marking as resolved.

The recommended way to create tasks is via :func:`asyncio.create_task`.

> Creating a task automatically adds it to the event loop's queue of tasks.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Creating a task automatically schedules it with the event loop to run soon.
```

Author: tweaked a bit to:

"Creating a task automatically schedules it for execution (by adding it to the
event loop's to-do list, that is, collection of jobs)."

Since there's only one event loop (in each thread), :mod:`!asyncio` takes care of
associating the task with the event loop for you. As such, there's no need
to specify the event loop.

::

>    # This creates a Task object and puts it on the event loop's queue.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
   # This creates a Task object and schedules its work with the event loop.
```

Author: Tweaked a bit to:

`# This creates a Task object and schedules its execution via the event loop.`

>    task = asyncio.create_task(coro=loudmouth_penguin(magic_number=5))

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
   task = asyncio.create_task(loudmouth_penguin(magic_number=5))
```

Author: See: https://github.com/python/cpython/pull/137215#discussion_r2250000923

Author: I think this has been resolved.

=====
await
=====

:keyword:`await` is a Python keyword that's commonly used in one of two
different ways::

   await task
   await coroutine

> Unfortunately, it does matter which type of object is ``await``\ ed.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
To understand how ``await`` behaves, it matters which type of object is awaited.
```

It is probably better for readability, as is done in the `asyncio` docs to use the double backticks when referring to the command itself.

Author: Yes, that makes sense! I tweaked your suggestion a bit: 

"In a crucial way, the behavior of ``await`` depends on the type of object 
being awaited."

> ``await``\ ing a task will cede control from the current task or coroutine to

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Awaiting a task will cede control from the current task or coroutine to
```

Author: Done 👍

the event loop.
In the process of relinquishing control, the task that's giving up control
adds a callback to the ``await``\ ed task's list of callbacks indicating it
should resume the current task/coroutine when it (the ``await``\ ed one)
finishes.
In other words, when that ``await``\ ed task finishes, the original task is

> added back to the event loops queue.

Reviewer 5: Reading this section and the next example is still confusing for someone less familiar with asyncio. Using current task, original task, awaited task, and it makes it difficult for the reader to follow the paragraph.

Author: Mhm yeah it is pretty dense. I took a crack at re-working it for better clarity. Let me know :)

---

Awaiting a task will cede control from the current task or coroutine to
the event loop.
In the process of relinquishing control a few important things happen.
We'll use the following code example to illustrate::
```
   async def plant_a_tree():
       dig_the_hole_task = asyncio.create_task(dig_the_hole())
       await dig_the_hole_task
       
       # Other instructions associated with planting a tree.
       ...
```
In this example, imagine the event loop has passed control to the start of the
coroutine ``plant_a_tree()``.
As seen above, that coroutine creates a task, then awaits it.
The ``await dig_the_hole_task`` instruction adds a callback, which will resume
``plant_a_tree()``, to the ``dig_the_hole_task`` object's list of callbacks.
And then, the ``await`` instruction cedes control to the event loop.
Some time later, the event loop will pass control to the ``dig_the_hole_task``
and the task will finish whatever it needs to do.
Once the task finishes, it will add its various callbacks to the event loop,
in this case, a call to resume ``plant_a_tree()``.

Generally speaking, when the awaited task finishes (``dig_the_hole_task``), 
the original task or coroutine (``plant_a_tree()``) is added back to the event
loops queue to be resumed.

   asyncio.run(main())

The first statement in the coroutine ``main()`` creates ``task_b`` and places
it on the event loop's queue.
Then, ``coro_a()`` is repeatedly ``await``\ ed. Control never cedes to the
event loop which is why we see the output of all three ``coro_a()``
invocations before ``coro_b()``'s output:

.. code-block:: none

   I am coro_a(). Hi!
   I am coro_a(). Hi!
   I am coro_a(). Hi!
   I am coro_b(). I sure hope no one hogs the event loop...

If we change ``await coro_a()`` to ``await asyncio.create_task(coro_a())``, the
behavior changes.
The coroutine ``main()`` cedes control to the event loop with that statement.
The event loop then works through its queue, calling ``coro_b()`` and then
``coro_a()`` before resuming the coroutine ``main()``.

.. code-block:: none

   I am coro_b(). I sure hope no one hogs the event loop...
   I am coro_a(). Hi!
   I am coro_a(). Hi!
   I am coro_a(). Hi!

------------------------------------------------
A conceptual overview part 2: the nuts and bolts
------------------------------------------------

Part 2 goes into detail on the mechanisms :mod:`!asyncio` uses to manage
control flow.
This is where the magic happens.

> You'll come away from this section knowing what await does behind the scenes

Reviewer 2: `await` is a code word:
```suggestion
You'll come away from this section knowing what ``await`` does behind the scenes
```

and how to make your own asynchronous operators.

================================================
coroutine.send(), await, yield and StopIteration
================================================

> :mod:`!asyncio` leverages 4 components to pass around control.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
:mod:`!asyncio` leverages four components to pass around control.
```

:meth:`coroutine.send(arg) <generator.send>` is the method used to start or
resume a coroutine.
If the coroutine was paused and is now being resumed, the argument ``arg``
will be sent in as the return value of the ``yield`` statement which originally
paused it.

> If the coroutine is being used for the first time, as opposed to being resumed,

Reviewer 2: Up to you, but I think parentheses work better here:
```suggestion
If the coroutine is being used for the first time (as opposed to being resumed)
```

Author: I agree 👍

> arg must be ``None``.

Reviewer 2: Code word:
```suggestion
``arg`` must be ``None``.
```

:ref:`yield <yieldexpr>`, like usual, pauses execution and returns control
to the caller.

> In the example below, the ``yield``, on line 3, is called by

Reviewer 5: Let's go ahead and present the example code before we discuss it.

Author: Ah, ya. Good call! Done 👍

``... = await rock`` on line 11.

> Generally, ``await`` calls the :meth:`~object.__await__` method of the given

Reviewer 2: Hm, can it do anything else? If not, we shouldn't say "generally".

Author: ~~Hah, yes, good call! Fixed.~~

Edit: Ah wait, this "Generally" was meant to serve as a transition from the prior sentence which talks about a specific usage of `await` in `await rock`. What do you think of switching to "More broadly speaking,"?

Reviewer 2: Sure, that works too.

Author: Cool. Done 👍

.. code-block::
   :linenos:

   class Rock:
       def __await__(self):
           value_sent_in = yield 7
           print(f"Rock.__await__ resuming with value: {value_sent_in}.")
           return value_sent_in

   async def main():
       print("Beginning coroutine main().")
       rock = Rock()
       print("Awaiting rock...")
       value_from_rock = await rock
       print(f"Coroutine received value: {value_from_rock} from rock.")
       return 23

   coroutine = main()
   intermediate_result = coroutine.send(None)
   print(f"Coroutine paused and returned intermediate value: {intermediate_result}.")

   print(f"Resuming coroutine and sending in value: 42.")
   try:
       coroutine.send(42)
   except StopIteration as e:
       returned_value = e.value
   print(f"Coroutine main() finished and provided value: {returned_value}.")

That snippet produces this output:

.. code-block:: none

   Beginning coroutine main().
   Awaiting rock...
   Coroutine paused and returned intermediate value: 7.
   Resuming coroutine and sending in value: 42.
   Rock.__await__ resuming with value: 42.
   Coroutine received value: 42 from rock.
   Coroutine main() finished and provided value: 23.

> It's worth pausing for a moment here and making sure you followed the various
> ways that control flow and values were passed.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
It's worth pausing here to review the various
ways that control flow and values were passed in the example. By doing that, you'll be able to verify your understanding before continuing to the next section.
```

Author: I tweaked a bit:

It's worth pausing for a moment here and making sure you followed the various
ways that control flow and values were passed. A lot of important ideas were
covered and it's worth ensuring your understanding is firm.

The only way to yield (or effectively cede control) from a coroutine is to
``await`` an object that ``yield``\ s in its ``__await__`` method.
That might sound odd to you. You might be thinking:

   1. What about a ``yield`` directly within the coroutine function? The
   coroutine function becomes an
   :ref:`async generator function <asynchronous-generator-functions>`, a
   different beast entirely.

   2. What about a ``yield from`` within the coroutine function to a (plain)
   generator?

>    ``SyntaxError: yield from not allowed in a coroutine.``
>    This was intentionally designed for the sake of simplicity -- mandating only
>    one way of using coroutines. Originally ``yield`` was actually barred as well,
>    but was re-accepted to allow for async generators.
>    Despite that, ``yield from`` and ``await`` effectively do the same thing.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
   It causes the following error: ``SyntaxError: yield from not allowed in a coroutine.``
   This was intentionally designed for the sake of simplicity -- mandating only
   one way of using coroutines. Initially ``yield`` was barred as well,
   but was re-accepted to allow for async generators.
   Despite that, ``yield from`` and ``await`` effectively do the same thing.
```

=======
Futures
=======

A :ref:`future <asyncio-future-obj>` is an object meant to represent a
computation's status and result.
The term is a nod to the idea of something still to come or not yet happened,
and the object is a way to keep an eye on that something.

A future has a few important attributes. One is its state which can be either
"pending", "cancelled" or "done".

> Another is its result which is set when the state transitions to done.

Reviewer 2: Needs a comma:
```suggestion
Another is its result, which is set when the state transitions to done.
```

Unlike a coroutine, a future does not represent the actual computation to be
done; instead, it represents the status and result of that computation, kind of
like a status light (red, yellow or green) or indicator.

:class:`asyncio.Task` subclasses :class:`asyncio.Future` in order to gain
these various capabilities.
The prior section said tasks store a list of callbacks, which wasn't entirely

> true.

Reviewer 2: This one is super nitpicky, but I like "correct" better because it can't be mixed up with `True`:
```suggestion
correct.
```

Reviewer 3: Since we're also talking about something that wasn't "entirely correct", you could also say "entirely accurate".

Author: Ah, I like that. Going to switch to accurate from correct.

It's actually the ``Future`` class that implements this logic which ``Task``
inherits.

Futures may also be used directly (not via tasks).
Tasks mark themselves as done when their coroutine is complete.
Futures are much more versatile and will be marked as done when you say so.
In this way, they're the flexible interface for you to make your own conditions
for waiting and resuming.

========================
A homemade asyncio.sleep
========================

We'll go through an example of how you could leverage a future to create your
own variant of asynchronous sleep (``async_sleep``) which mimics
:func:`asyncio.sleep`.

> This snippet puts a few tasks on the event loop's queue and then ``await``\ s a
> coroutine wrapped in a task: ``async_sleep(3)``.
> We want that task to finish only after three seconds have elapsed, but without
> preventing other tasks from running.

Reviewer 5: I'm still on the fence about using queue.

```suggestion
This snippet registers a few tasks with the event loop and then awaits a
coroutine wrapped in a task: ``async_sleep(3)``.
We want that task to finish only after three seconds have elapsed, but without
preventing other tasks from running.
```

::

   async def other_work():

>        print("I am worker. Work work.")

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
       print("I am a worker. Work work.")
```

Author: The lack of an "a" was actually intentional. Meant to be a bit goofy and reminiscent of some old real-time strategy games. Though, if the grammatical correctness is a concern, how about: "I like work. Work work."?

Reviewer 5: "I like work." That works for me.

Author: Done 👍 

Going to mark as resolved :)

       # asyncio.gather effectively awaits each task in the collection.
       await asyncio.gather(*work_tasks)

Below, we use a future to enable custom control over when that task will be
marked as done.
If :meth:`future.set_result() <asyncio.Future.set_result>` (the method
responsible for marking that future as done) is never called, then this task
will never finish.
We've also enlisted the help of another task, which we'll see in a moment, that
will monitor how much time has elapsed and accordingly call
``future.set_result()``.

::

   async def async_sleep(seconds: float):
       future = asyncio.Future()
       time_to_wake = time.time() + seconds
       # Add the watcher-task to the event loop.
       watcher_task = asyncio.create_task(_sleep_watcher(future, time_to_wake))
       # Block until the future is marked as done.
       await future

We'll use a rather bare object, ``YieldToEventLoop()``, to ``yield`` from
``__await__`` in order to cede control to the event loop.
This is effectively the same as calling ``asyncio.sleep(0)``, but this approach
offers more clarity, not to mention it's somewhat cheating to use
``asyncio.sleep`` when showcasing how to implement it!

> As usual, the event loop cycles through its queue of tasks, giving them control

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
As usual, the event loop cycles through its tasks, giving them control
```

Author: Done 👍

and receiving control back when they pause or finish.
The ``watcher_task``, which runs the coroutine ``_sleep_watcher(...)``, will

> be invoked once per full cycle of the event loop's queue.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
be invoked once per full cycle of the event loop.
```

Author: Done 👍

On each resumption, it'll check the time and if not enough has elapsed, then
it'll pause once again and hand control back to the event loop.
Eventually, enough time will have elapsed, and ``_sleep_watcher(...)`` will
mark the future as done, and then itself finish too by breaking out of the
infinite ``while`` loop.

> Given this helper task is only invoked once per cycle of the event loop's queue,

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Given this helper task is only invoked once per cycle of the event loop,
```

Author: Done 👍

you'd be correct to note that this asynchronous sleep will sleep *at least*
three seconds, rather than exactly three seconds.
Note this is also of true of ``asyncio.sleep``.

::

   class YieldToEventLoop:
       def __await__(self):
           yield

   async def _sleep_watcher(future, time_to_wake):
       while True:
           if time.time() >= time_to_wake:
               # This marks the future as done.
               future.set_result(None)
               break
           else:
               await YieldToEventLoop()

Here is the full program's output:

.. code-block:: none

   $ python custom-async-sleep.py
   Beginning asynchronous sleep at time: 14:52:22.

>    I am worker. Work work.
>    I am worker. Work work.
>    I am worker. Work work.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
   I am a worker. Work work.
   I am a worker. Work work.
   I am a worker. Work work.
```

Author: I think this has been resolved per the discussion in another comment thread.

   Done asynchronous sleep at time: 14:52:25.

You might feel this implementation of asynchronous sleep was unnecessarily
convoluted.
And, well, it was.
The example was meant to showcase the versatility of futures with a simple
example that could be mimicked for more complex needs.
For reference, you could implement it without futures, like so::

   async def simpler_async_sleep(seconds):
       time_to_wake = time.time() + seconds
       while True:
           if time.time() >= time_to_wake:
               return
           else:
               await YieldToEventLoop()

But, that's all for now. Hopefully you're ready to more confidently dive into
some async programming or check out advanced topics in the

> :mod:`docs <asyncio>`.

Reviewer 2: We are the docs:
```suggestion
:mod:`rest of the documentation <asyncio>`.
```

- How does :mod:`!asyncio` differentiate between a task which doesn't need
  CPU-time (such as a network request or file read) as opposed to a task that
  does (such as computing n-factorial)?
- How to write an asynchronous variant of an operation, such as
  an async sleep or database request.

.. seealso::

   The `guide <https://github.com/anordin95/a-conceptual-overview-of-asyncio/
   tree/main>`_ that inspired this HOWTO article.

--------------------------------------------
A conceptual overview part 1: the high-level
--------------------------------------------

In part 1, we'll cover the main, high-level building blocks of :mod:`!asyncio`:
the event loop, coroutine functions, coroutine objects, tasks and ``await``.

==========
Event Loop
==========

Everything in :mod:`!asyncio` happens relative to the event loop.
It's the star of the show.
It's like an orchestra conductor.
It's behind the scenes managing resources.
Some power is explicitly granted to it, but a lot of its ability to get things
done comes from the respect and cooperation of its teammates.

In more technical terms, the event loop contains a queue of jobs to be run.

> Some jobs are added directly by you, and some indirectly by :mod:`!asyncio`.

Reviewer 7: I'm going to point out some minor clarifications, feel free to disregard if you don't think it's appropriate in these docs:

It would be more accurate here to say that _any_ code can queue a job, including third-party libraries etc.

Author: Hm. While that is true, I don't feel that fits well or is needed here.

The event loop pops a job from the queue and invokes it (or "gives it control"),

> similar to calling a function, and then that job runs.

Reviewer 7: Strictly speaking, it's not quite a simple queue. Maybe this only matters to low-level asyncio developers though, and general users don't need to understand the difference.

If I remember correctly, essentially, when tasks are being added, they get added to a list of tasks to be run on the _next_ loop cycle. Once all tasks in the current list have been iterated through once (with incomplete tasks getting re-added to the next cycle's list), only then does it move to the next loop cycle, and create a new list for a future cycle.

This is probably roughly the same as the comment below: https://github.com/python/cpython/pull/137215/files#r2250000716

Author: Mhm! Though, they're not distinct lists/queues. The iteration uses the initial length of the queue (`self._ready`).

https://github.com/python/cpython/blob/c5cebe1b5afa58fc0ee95153a4b1905229dce7dc/Lib/asyncio/base_events.py#L2023-L2030

Once it pauses or completes, it returns control to the event loop.
The event loop will then move on to the next job in its queue and invoke it.
This process repeats indefinitely.
Even if the queue is empty, the event loop continues to cycle (somewhat

> aimlessly).

Reviewer 7: Typically we use `asyncio.run()`, so the loop continues until that task completes, not indefinitely.

I also don't think the loop cycles aimlessly, the application would basically sleep. e.g. If all your tasks are waiting on I/O (so there are no tasks queued), then it uses the OS's select() call to tell the OS to wake it up when it's received data on those sockets. When it wakes up, it will reschedule the tasks associated with those sockets and run another cycle.

Author: Ahhh, fair! Thanks :) I'll rework this a bit.

Author: Reworked 👍 

This process repeats indefinitely with the event loop cycling endlessly 
onwards.
If the queue is empty, the event loop is smart enough to rest and avoid 
needlessly wasting CPU cycles, and will come back when there's more work
to be done.

(PS idk if you're still having issues w/ permissions to resolve a conversation. If so, reply with a 🚀  emoji to indicate resolution)

Effective execution relies on tasks sharing well and cooperating; a greedy job could hog
control and leave the other tasks to starve, rendering the overall event loop
approach rather useless.

::

   import asyncio

   # This creates an event loop and indefinitely cycles through
   # its queue of tasks.
   event_loop = asyncio.new_event_loop()

>    event_loop.run_forever()

Reviewer 7: I would suggest we don't use the low-level APIs here if we're trying to teach users the correct way to utilise asyncio.

Author: I like the clarity that this explicit approach provides. I think it helps users gain a broader understanding. But I hear you on also showing the suggested API usage. I've added a chunk to this effect in the Tasks section:

Earlier, we manually created the event loop and set it to run forever. 
In practice, it's recommended to use (and common to see) :func:`asyncio.run`,
which takes care of managing the event loop and ensuring the provided 
coroutine finishes before advancing. 
For example, many async programs follow this setup::
```
   import asyncio

   async def main():
       ...

   if __name__ == "__main__":
       asyncio.run(main())
       # The program will not reach the following print statement until the
       # coroutine main() finishes.
       print("coroutine main() is done!")

```

Reviewer 7: > I like the clarity that this explicit approach provides. I think it helps users gain a broader understanding.

I'll leave it to you, but personally I don't really understand what it's trying to explain.

Technically, as per my comment above, the comment here is not entirely accurate. This code in it's current state, creates an event loop and starts the first cycle of the loop and then basically sleeps indefinitely as I understand it. It does not cycle indefinitely, because there is no code that could cause it to move on to a second cycle.

Reviewer 6: > I like the clarity that this explicit approach provides. I think it helps users gain a broader understanding. But I hear you on also showing the suggested API usage. I've added a chunk to this effect in the Tasks section:

For new docs, you should use asyncio.run or asyncio.Runner as the runner, -1 on using older APIs which are hard to use correctly.

Author: > I'll leave it to you, but personally I don't really understand what it's trying to explain.

Mhm. The goal is to make the event loop object explicit to the user, at least just once. Then, we can relegate it to the background. Without that, the article frequently references this strange object (an event loop), but we never really get to see it as the reader. And I think the goal of this article as an explainer should be to provide some deeper context & understanding. 

Yes! I hear you on the loop_forever! I'll tweak that. 

For reference, the article does clarify and recommend shortly after this about using `asyncio.run`.

Reviewer 7: If we just wanted to expose the loop, then we could still use .run_until_complete() so it matches asyncio.run() behaviour.

Author: True. But this is the first idea introduced in the article. `run_until_complete` somewhat relies on coroutines and tasks.

Part 2 goes into detail on the mechanisms :mod:`!asyncio` uses to manage
control flow.
This is where the magic happens.
You'll come away from this section knowing what ``await`` does behind the scenes
and how to make your own asynchronous operators.

================================================
coroutine.send(), await, yield and StopIteration
================================================

:mod:`!asyncio` leverages four components to pass around control.

:meth:`coroutine.send(arg) <generator.send>` is the method used to start or
resume a coroutine.
If the coroutine was paused and is now being resumed, the argument ``arg``
will be sent in as the return value of the ``yield`` statement which originally
paused it.
If the coroutine is being used for the first time (as opposed to being resumed)
``arg`` must be ``None``.

:ref:`yield <yieldexpr>`, like usual, pauses execution and returns control
to the caller.
In the example below, the ``yield``, on line 3, is called by
``... = await rock`` on line 11.
More broadly speaking, ``await`` calls the :meth:`~object.__await__` method of
the given object.
``await`` also does one more very special thing: it propagates (or "passes

> along") any ``yield``\ s it receives up the call-chain.

Reviewer 7: It's essentially syntactic sugar for `yield from` (which was the actual syntax used in Python 3.4).

Reviewer 2: This is mentioned later.

Reviewer 7: Yeah, I guess to me this should just point to `yield from` in the docs elsewhere, rather than re-explaining how it works. But, probably doesn't matter much.

Curiously, I don't have permissions to resolve my own comments here...

Author: Ah, yeah, it should point to `yield from` when it does get mentioned. Fixed 👍 

Also, going to mark this as resolved (due to your apparent inability, hah!). Quite odd that you don't have that permission.

       rock = Rock()
       print("Awaiting rock...")
       value_from_rock = await rock
       print(f"Coroutine received value: {value_from_rock} from rock.")
       return 23

   coroutine = main()
   intermediate_result = coroutine.send(None)
   print(f"Coroutine paused and returned intermediate value: {intermediate_result}.")

   print(f"Resuming coroutine and sending in value: 42.")
   try:
       coroutine.send(42)
   except StopIteration as e:
       returned_value = e.value
   print(f"Coroutine main() finished and provided value: {returned_value}.")

That snippet produces this output:

.. code-block:: none

   Beginning coroutine main().
   Awaiting rock...
   Coroutine paused and returned intermediate value: 7.
   Resuming coroutine and sending in value: 42.
   Rock.__await__ resuming with value: 42.
   Coroutine received value: 42 from rock.
   Coroutine main() finished and provided value: 23.

It's worth pausing for a moment here and making sure you followed the various
ways that control flow and values were passed.

The only way to yield (or effectively cede control) from a coroutine is to
``await`` an object that ``yield``\ s in its ``__await__`` method.

> That might sound odd to you. You might be thinking:

Reviewer 7: It's probably worth an example of why this might be a problem and how to deal with it?

For example, if you `await` on things which don't yield or are processing some CPU-intensive data, you may need to add `await asyncio.sleep(0)` to the code to ensure the code does yield back to the event loop in a reasonable amount of time.

Reviewer 7: Additionally on that, it might be worth mentioning the debug features of asyncio, such as the ability to log anything that blocks the loop for more than  (by default) 100ms.

Author: Hm, yeah. Good callout! Lemme stew on this a bit.

Author: Done, though incorporated into the `await` section 👍

``__await__`` in order to cede control to the event loop.
This is effectively the same as calling ``asyncio.sleep(0)``, but this approach
offers more clarity, not to mention it's somewhat cheating to use
``asyncio.sleep`` when showcasing how to implement it!

As usual, the event loop cycles through its queue of tasks, giving them control
and receiving control back when they pause or finish.
The ``watcher_task``, which runs the coroutine ``_sleep_watcher(...)``, will
be invoked once per full cycle of the event loop's queue.
On each resumption, it'll check the time and if not enough has elapsed, then
it'll pause once again and hand control back to the event loop.
Eventually, enough time will have elapsed, and ``_sleep_watcher(...)`` will
mark the future as done, and then itself finish too by breaking out of the
infinite ``while`` loop.
Given this helper task is only invoked once per cycle of the event loop's queue,
you'd be correct to note that this asynchronous sleep will sleep *at least*
three seconds, rather than exactly three seconds.
Note this is also of true of ``asyncio.sleep``.

::

   class YieldToEventLoop:

>        def __await__(self):

Reviewer 6: Bare yield is used internally by asyncio to implement asyncio.sleep(0) and is special cased, I don't think this is a good example to document as it relies too much on implementation detail.

Author: Hm. I don't think this is an implementation detail of `asyncio`. If we momentarily ignore `asyncio` completely, this (`yield`ing from an `__await__`) is the only way to cede control from a Python coroutine. Could you say more about it being special cased?

Instead, I think `asyncio.sleep(0)`, this example and any other `async` library likely use this same fundamental pattern exposed by Python.

Reviewer 6: > Hm. I don't think this is an implementation detail of asyncio. 

Why? Is this documented somewhere? 

> Could you say more about it being special cased?

yielding None is special cased and is used for relinquishing control for one event loop iteration. You can see this in implementation of tasks. 

> Instead, I think asyncio.sleep(0), this example and any other async library likely use this same fundamental pattern exposed by Python.

No, asyncio libraries are built on top of futures and tasks and not objects implementing `__await__` from scratch.

Reviewer 7: > No, asyncio libraries are built on top of futures and tasks and not objects implementing `__await__` from scratch.

I think they mean alternatives to asyncio such as trio, not asyncio libraries. The point is to understand how asyncio actually works, rather than the bare minimum needed to build something on top of it. Understanding this point helps advanced users understand when (and why) code may or may not yield to the event loop.

Author: > Why? Is this documented somewhere?

> yielding None is special cased and is used for relinquishing control for one event loop iteration. You can see this in implementation of tasks.

I'm not sure! I haven't checked the docs. And yes I imagine it is! But that's not really my point. `asyncio` happens to use `yield`ing from an `__await__` to cede control. But, that's also the only way to cede control from a coroutine. This is illustrated in the example earlier in the article which features no usage of `asyncio` nor an event loop.

And yes, exactly @Dreamsorcerer!

Coroutines and coroutine functions were built by leveraging the functionality
of :term:`generators <generator iterator>` and
:term:`generator functions <generator>`.
Recall, a generator function is a function that :keyword:`yield`\s, like this
one::

   def get_random_number():
       # This would be a bad random number generator!
       print("Hi")
       yield 1
       print("Hello")
       yield 7
       print("Howdy")
       yield 4
       ...

Similar to a coroutine function, calling a generator function does not run it.
Instead, it creates a generator object::

   >>> get_random_number()
   <generator object get_random_number at 0x1048671c0>

You can proceed to the next ``yield`` of a generator by using the
built-in function :func:`next`.
In other words, the generator runs, then pauses.
For example::

   >>> generator = get_random_number()
   >>> next(generator)
   Hi
   1
   >>> next(generator)
   Hello
   7

=====
Tasks
=====

Roughly speaking, :ref:`tasks <asyncio-task-obj>` are coroutines (not coroutine
functions) tied to an event loop.
A task also maintains a list of callback functions whose importance will become
clear in a moment when we discuss :keyword:`await`.

> The recommended way to create tasks is via :func:`asyncio.create_task`.
> Creating a task automatically adds it to the event loop's queue of tasks.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The recommended way to create tasks is via :func:`asyncio.create_task` 
which creates the task and schedules its execution by the event loop. 
```

Author: Similar comment made earlier. See response: https://github.com/python/cpython/pull/137215/files#r2261727271

coroutine finishes before advancing.
For example, many async programs follow this setup::

   import asyncio

   async def main():
       ...

   if __name__ == "__main__":
       asyncio.run(main())
       # The program will not reach the following print statement until the
       # coroutine main() finishes.
       print("coroutine main() is done!")

=====
await
=====

:keyword:`await` is a Python keyword that's commonly used in one of two
different ways::

   await task
   await coroutine

Unfortunately, it does matter which type of object is ``await``\ ed.

``await``\ ing a task will cede control from the current task or coroutine to
the event loop.
In the process of relinquishing control, the task that's giving up control
adds a callback to the ``await``\ ed task's list of callbacks indicating it
should resume the current task/coroutine when it (the ``await``\ ed one)
finishes.
In other words, when that ``await``\ ed task finishes, the original task is
added back to the event loops queue.

This is a basic, yet reliable mental model.
In practice, it's slightly more complex, but not by much.
In part 2, we'll walk through the details that make this possible.

> **Unlike tasks, awaiting a coroutine does not hand control back to the event

Reviewer 6: This isn't entirely correct, using tasks does not guarantee that the control will be given to event loop if e.g. the task completes eagerly.

Author: Thanks for the clarification. I didn't know about that! You're referring to the `eager_start=True` parameter in 
~~`create_task()`~~ edit: `asyncio.Task`, right?

We could add a brief note, like: "Unlike tasks, awaiting a coroutine does not hand control back to the event loop (though note that tasks created with eager_start=True may also complete without yielding control)."

Though, since this parameter defaults to `False`, we otherwise don't mention the low level `asyncio.Task` api, and the documentation for `eager_start` pretty well already describes this special behavior I lean towards leaving this as-is. I'm generally wary of documenting the various edge cases that people can opt-in to which the style guide also somewhat advises against: https://devguide.python.org/documentation/style-guide/#economy-of-expression

Reviewer 7: > `eager_start=True` parameter in `create_task()`, right?

It's in asyncio.Task only. So I guess it's not a high-level feature that regular users should be using, but it's something we use to optimise in asyncio libraries like aiohttp.

 Maybe just tweak it to say 'user-created tasks', and try to avoid mentioning eager_start directly?

Author: > It's in asyncio.Task only.

Ah, oops. My mistake! Thanks for the clarification.

Hmm, yeah. That is a nice idea. But I'm worried it may leave folks wondering why non user-created tasks don't fit the mold.

.. _a-conceptual-overview-of-asyncio:

****************************************
A Conceptual Overview of :mod:`!asyncio`
****************************************

This :ref:`HOWTO <how-tos>` article seeks to help you build a sturdy mental model of how :mod:`asyncio`
fundamentally works, helping you understand the how and why behind the
recommended patterns.

You might be curious about some key :mod:`!asyncio` concepts.
You'll be comfortably able to answer these questions by the end of this
article:

- What's happening behind the scenes when an object is awaited?
- How does :mod:`!asyncio` differentiate between a task which doesn't need
  CPU-time (such as a network request or file read) as opposed to a task that
  does (such as computing n-factorial)?
- How to write an asynchronous variant of an operation, such as
  an async sleep or database request.

.. seealso::

>    The `guide <https://github.com/anordin95/a-conceptual-overview-of-asyncio/

Reviewer 5: Let's also add two more references:
- import asyncio: Learn Python's AsyncIO #2 - The Event Loop presented by core team member, Łukasz Langa  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E7Yn5biBZ58 
- 500 Lines or Less: A Web Crawler With asyncio Coroutines by A. Jesse Jiryu Davis and Guido van Rossum https://aosabook.org/en/500L/a-web-crawler-with-asyncio-coroutines.html

cc @kumaraditya303

Author: Done 👍 

Since your suggestions include the author names, it felt odd not to have it for the guide, so I added my name in. Happy to also drop all the names too! Just looks a bit odd if it's not consistent.

Reviewer 5: Names for all works fine to me.

to specify the event loop.

::

   coroutine = loudmouth_penguin(magic_number=5)
   # This creates a Task object and puts it on the event loop's queue.
   task = asyncio.create_task(coroutine)

Earlier, we manually created the event loop and set it to run forever.
In practice, it's recommended to use (and common to see) :func:`asyncio.run`,
which takes care of managing the event loop and ensuring the provided
coroutine finishes before advancing.
For example, many async programs follow this setup::

   import asyncio

   async def main():
       # Perform all sorts of wacky, wild asynchronous things...
       ...

   if __name__ == "__main__":
       asyncio.run(main())
       # The program will not reach the following print statement until the
       # coroutine main() finishes.
       print("coroutine main() is done!")

=====
await
=====

:keyword:`await` is a Python keyword that's commonly used in one of two
different ways::

   await task
   await coroutine

In a crucial way, the behavior of ``await`` depends on the type of object
being awaited.

Awaiting a task will cede control from the current task or coroutine to
the event loop.

> In the process of relinquishing control a few important things happen.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the process of relinquishing control, a few important things happen.
```

We'll use the following code example to illustrate::

   async def plant_a_tree():
       dig_the_hole_task = asyncio.create_task(dig_the_hole())
       await dig_the_hole_task

       # Other instructions associated with planting a tree.
       ...

In this example, imagine the event loop has passed control to the start of the
coroutine ``plant_a_tree()``.

> As seen above, that coroutine creates a task, then awaits it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As seen above, the coroutine creates a task and then awaits it.
```

The ``await dig_the_hole_task`` instruction adds a callback, which will resume

> ``plant_a_tree()``, to the ``dig_the_hole_task`` object's list of callbacks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``plant_a_tree()`` to the ``dig_the_hole_task`` object's list of callbacks.
```

Author: For once (hah!), I actually think it's correct as-is. The phrase surrounded by commas is describing the callback.

Reviewer 2: Ah, you're right. I misunderstood the context here. I think parentheses might be clearer but up to you.

Author: Mmm good call. Done 👍

And then, the instruction cedes control to the event loop.

> Some time later, the event loop will pass control to the ``dig_the_hole_task``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some time later, the event loop will pass control to the ``dig_the_hole_task`` coroutine
```

Author: ~~slight tweak: I think it makes more sense as possessive: "... to ``dig_the_hole_task``'s coroutine"~~

On second thought, I think it's somewhat clear as-is. The article's generally already been referring to tasks as callable/invocable things. And at this point in the article, people are already aware tasks contain coroutines.

Reviewer 2: Then there shouldn't be a definite article (remove "the"), there's no other definite articles behind function names AFAICT.

Author: Done 👍

The first statement in the coroutine ``main()`` creates ``task_b`` and places
it on the event loop's queue.
Then, ``coro_a()`` is repeatedly awaited. Control never cedes to the
event loop which is why we see the output of all three ``coro_a()``
invocations before ``coro_b()``'s output:

.. code-block:: none

   I am coro_a(). Hi!
   I am coro_a(). Hi!
   I am coro_a(). Hi!
   I am coro_b(). I sure hope no one hogs the event loop...

If we change ``await coro_a()`` to ``await asyncio.create_task(coro_a())``, the
behavior changes.
The coroutine ``main()`` cedes control to the event loop with that statement.
The event loop then works through its queue, calling ``coro_b()`` and then
``coro_a()`` before resuming the coroutine ``main()``.

.. code-block:: none

   I am coro_b(). I sure hope no one hogs the event loop...
   I am coro_a(). Hi!
   I am coro_a(). Hi!
   I am coro_a(). Hi!

This behavior of ``await coroutine`` can trip a lot of people up!
That example highlights how using only ``await coroutine`` could
unintentionally hog control from other tasks and effectively stall the event
loop.
:func:`asyncio.run` can help you detect such occurences with the ``debug=True``
flag.

> Among other things, that will log any coroutines which monopolize execution for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Among other things, it will log any coroutines that monopolize execution for
```

   one way of using coroutines. Initially ``yield`` was barred as well,
   but was re-accepted to allow for async generators.
   Despite that, ``yield from`` and ``await`` effectively do the same thing.

=======
Futures
=======

A :ref:`future <asyncio-future-obj>` is an object meant to represent a
computation's status and result.
The term is a nod to the idea of something still to come or not yet happened,
and the object is a way to keep an eye on that something.

A future has a few important attributes. One is its state which can be either
"pending", "cancelled" or "done".
Another is its result, which is set when the state transitions to done.
Unlike a coroutine, a future does not represent the actual computation to be
done; instead, it represents the status and result of that computation, kind of
like a status light (red, yellow or green) or indicator.

:class:`asyncio.Task` subclasses :class:`asyncio.Future` in order to gain
these various capabilities.
The prior section said tasks store a list of callbacks, which wasn't entirely
accurate.
It's actually the ``Future`` class that implements this logic which ``Task``

> inherits.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's actually the ``Future`` class that implements this logic, which ``Task``
inherits.
```

We want that task to finish only after three seconds have elapsed, but without
preventing other tasks from running.

::

   async def other_work():
       print("I like work. Work work.")

   async def main():
       # Add a few other tasks to the event loop, so there's something
       # to do while asynchronously sleeping.
       work_tasks = [
           asyncio.create_task(other_work()),
           asyncio.create_task(other_work()),
           asyncio.create_task(other_work())
       ]
       print(
           "Beginning asynchronous sleep at time: "
           f"{datetime.datetime.now().strftime("%H:%M:%S")}."
       )
       await asyncio.create_task(async_sleep(3))
       print(
           "Done asynchronous sleep at time: "
           f"{datetime.datetime.now().strftime("%H:%M:%S")}."
       )
       # asyncio.gather effectively awaits each task in the collection.
       await asyncio.gather(*work_tasks)

Below, we use a future to enable custom control over when that task will be
marked as done.
If :meth:`future.set_result() <asyncio.Future.set_result>` (the method
responsible for marking that future as done) is never called, then this task
will never finish.

> We've also enlisted the help of another task, which we'll see in a moment, that
> will monitor how much time has elapsed and accordingly call

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We've also enlisted the help of another task, which we'll see in a moment, that
will monitor how much time has elapsed and, accordingly, call
```

  an async sleep or database request.

.. seealso::

   * The `guide <https://github.com/anordin95/a-conceptual-overview-of-asyncio/
     tree/main>`_ that inspired this HOWTO article, by Alexander Nordin.
   * This in-depth `YouTube tutorial series <https://www.youtube.com/
     watch?v=Xbl7XjFYsN4&list=PLhNSoGM2ik6SIkVGXWBwerucXjgP1rHmB>`_ on
     ``asyncio`` created by core Python team member, Łukasz Lang.
   * `500 Lines or Less: A Web Crawler With asyncio Coroutines <https://
     aosabook.org/en/500L/a-web-crawler-with-asyncio-coroutines.html>`_ by A.
     Jesse Jiryu Davis and Guido van Rossum.

--------------------------------------------
A conceptual overview part 1: the high-level
--------------------------------------------

In part 1, we'll cover the main, high-level building blocks of :mod:`!asyncio`:
the event loop, coroutine functions, coroutine objects, tasks and ``await``.

==========
Event Loop
==========

Everything in :mod:`!asyncio` happens relative to the event loop.
It's the star of the show.
It's like an orchestra conductor.
It's behind the scenes managing resources.
Some power is explicitly granted to it, but a lot of its ability to get things

> done comes from the respect and cooperation of its teammates.

Author: @willingc I recall we changed this from "subordinates" to "teammates" though I can't exactly recall why. I'm a bit worried teammates implies that the event loop and the tasks it invokes play similar roles. Perhaps "worker bees", "agents" or "delegates"? I personally lean towards worker bees. Do you have any other ideas?

Reviewer 5: worker bees sounds good to me

.. _a-conceptual-overview-of-asyncio:

****************************************
A Conceptual Overview of :mod:`!asyncio`
****************************************

This :ref:`HOWTO <how-tos>` article seeks to help you build a sturdy mental
model of how :mod:`asyncio` fundamentally works, helping you understand the
how and why behind the recommended patterns.

You might be curious about some key :mod:`!asyncio` concepts.
You'll be comfortably able to answer these questions by the end of this
article:

- What's happening behind the scenes when an object is awaited?
- How does :mod:`!asyncio` differentiate between a task which doesn't need
  CPU-time (such as a network request or file read) as opposed to a task that
  does (such as computing n-factorial)?
- How to write an asynchronous variant of an operation, such as
  an async sleep or database request.

.. seealso::

   * The `guide <https://github.com/anordin95/a-conceptual-overview-of-asyncio/
     tree/main>`_ that inspired this HOWTO article, by Alexander Nordin.
   * This in-depth `YouTube tutorial series <https://www.youtube.com/
     watch?v=Xbl7XjFYsN4&list=PLhNSoGM2ik6SIkVGXWBwerucXjgP1rHmB>`_ on

>      ``asyncio`` created by core Python team member, Łukasz Lang.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
     ``asyncio`` created by core Python team member, Łukasz Langa.
```

--------------------------------------------
A conceptual overview part 1: the high-level
--------------------------------------------

In part 1, we'll cover the main, high-level building blocks of :mod:`!asyncio`:
the event loop, coroutine functions, coroutine objects, tasks and ``await``.

==========
Event Loop
==========

Everything in :mod:`!asyncio` happens relative to the event loop.
It's the star of the show.
It's like an orchestra conductor.
It's behind the scenes managing resources.
Some power is explicitly granted to it, but a lot of its ability to get things
done comes from the respect and cooperation of its worker bees.

In more technical terms, the event loop contains a collection of jobs to be run.
Some jobs are added directly by you, and some indirectly by :mod:`!asyncio`.
The event loop takes a job from its backlog of work and invokes it (or "gives
it control"), similar to calling a function, and then that job runs.
Once it pauses or completes, it returns control to the event loop.
The event loop will then select another job from its pool and invoke it.
You can *roughly* think of the collection of jobs as a queue: jobs are added and

> then processed one at a time, generally (but not always) in order.

Reviewer 7: > generally (but not always) in order.

I still find this bit awkward as it's again suggesting that order of execution is unpredictable. Can we say that the jobs are processed in the order that they were scheduled or something?

Author: Hm. If there's phrasing you have in mind, that the folks who are wary of the queue analogy would also be on board with, I'm open to it!

   task = asyncio.create_task(coroutine)

Earlier, we manually created the event loop and set it to run forever.
In practice, it's recommended to use (and common to see) :func:`asyncio.run`,
which takes care of managing the event loop and ensuring the provided
coroutine finishes before advancing.
For example, many async programs follow this setup::

   import asyncio

   async def main():
       # Perform all sorts of wacky, wild asynchronous things...
       ...

   if __name__ == "__main__":
       asyncio.run(main())
       # The program will not reach the following print statement until the
       # coroutine main() finishes.
       print("coroutine main() is done!")

It's important to be aware that the task itself is not added to the event loop,
only a callback to the task is.
This matters if the task object you created is garbage collected before it's
called by the event loop.
For example, consider this program::

   async def hello():
       print("hello!")

   async def main():
       hello_task = asyncio.create_task(hello())
       return

   asyncio.run(main())

Because the coroutine ``main()`` exits before awaiting the task and no other

> references to the task are made, the task object ``hello_task`` *might* be

Reviewer 7: This may not be the best example, as the application is expected to close at the end of main(). So the task gets cancelled anyway. i.e. Even if I keep a reference, I can get the task to not complete:
```
>>> async def hello():
...  await asyncio.sleep(1)
...  print("BAR")
... 
>>> async def main():
...  global t
...  t = asyncio.create_task(hello())
... 
>>> asyncio.run(main())
>>> t
<Task cancelled name='Task-10' coro=<hello() done, defined at <stdin>:1>>
```

Reviewer 7: If you did:
```
   async def hello():
       await asyncio.sleep(1)
       print("hello!")

   async def main():
       asyncio.create_task(hello())
       await asyncio.sleep(2)
```

Or similar, then this probably better shows the risk. This works in practice today, but is not guaranteed to work.

Author: Neat first example! 

Hm. I don't see how the second better illustrates the risk. The risk that the current example is meant to emphasize is the problem with losing references (before `await`ing). As opposed to the program exiting before all registered (but un`await`ed) tasks finish.

Reviewer 7: > The risk that the current example is meant to emphasize is the problem with losing references (before `await`ing).

My point is that it doesn't show that, because main() exits regardless and the other task is not expected to continue running. As I showed above, it doesn't run past the initial iteration if we _do_ hold references to it, nevermind if we don't.

The second example has a sleep so that main() outlives the task. So, in this case the lack of a reference could cause an issue. With a reference, the task _is_ meant to run until completion.

Author: Well, yeah it doesn't show the issue of GC killing off references. But none of these examples shown so far do. It's somewhat difficult to create a simple, real example. https://github.com/python/cpython/issues/117379

Ah, I think I see what you're saying of how folks could confuse the termination of `main()` with the danger of GC'd tasks. I've reworked a decent bit to clarify.

Reviewer 7: Yeah, that looks better to me.

         await coro_a()
      await task_b

   asyncio.run(main())

The first statement in the coroutine ``main()`` creates ``task_b`` and schedules
it for execution via the event loop.
Then, ``coro_a()`` is repeatedly awaited. Control never cedes to the
event loop which is why we see the output of all three ``coro_a()``
invocations before ``coro_b()``'s output:

.. code-block:: none

   I am coro_a(). Hi!
   I am coro_a(). Hi!
   I am coro_a(). Hi!
   I am coro_b(). I sure hope no one hogs the event loop...

If we change ``await coro_a()`` to ``await asyncio.create_task(coro_a())``, the
behavior changes.
The coroutine ``main()`` cedes control to the event loop with that statement.
The event loop then proceeds through its backlog of work, calling ``coro_b()``
and then ``coro_a()`` before resuming the coroutine ``main()``.

.. code-block:: none

   I am coro_b(). I sure hope no one hogs the event loop...
   I am coro_a(). Hi!
   I am coro_a(). Hi!
   I am coro_a(). Hi!

This behavior of ``await coroutine`` can trip a lot of people up!
That example highlights how using only ``await coroutine`` could
unintentionally hog control from other tasks and effectively stall the event
loop.

> :func:`asyncio.run` can help you detect such occurences with the ``debug=True``

Reviewer 7: To clarify, the way I'd expect most developers to use this is not by modifying the code, but by running python in dev mode locally (`-X dev` or `PYTHONDEVMODE=1`). A link should take users to: https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio-dev.html#asyncio-debug-mode

Author: Added the link 👍 

Hm. I agree but that's effectively a shortcut. Pedagogically, I think it's clearer to mention the ``debug=True`` flag.

Reviewer 7: > Hm. I agree but that's effectively a shortcut. Pedagogically, I think it's clearer to mention the `debug=True` flag.

If you say so. I didn't even know that parameter existed and can't imagine ever using it. All I need to know as a user is that this feature exists and is enabled as part of dev mode..

.. _a-conceptual-overview-of-asyncio:

****************************************
A Conceptual Overview of :mod:`!asyncio`
****************************************

This :ref:`HOWTO <how-tos>` article seeks to help you build a sturdy mental
model of how :mod:`asyncio` fundamentally works, helping you understand the
how and why behind the recommended patterns.

You might be curious about some key :mod:`!asyncio` concepts.
You'll be comfortably able to answer these questions by the end of this
article:

- What's happening behind the scenes when an object is awaited?
- How does :mod:`!asyncio` differentiate between a task which doesn't need
  CPU-time (such as a network request or file read) as opposed to a task that
  does (such as computing n-factorial)?
- How to write an asynchronous variant of an operation, such as
  an async sleep or database request.

.. seealso::

   * The `guide <https://github.com/anordin95/a-conceptual-overview-of-asyncio/
     tree/main>`_ that inspired this HOWTO article, by Alexander Nordin.
   * This in-depth `YouTube tutorial series <https://www.youtube.com/
     watch?v=Xbl7XjFYsN4&list=PLhNSoGM2ik6SIkVGXWBwerucXjgP1rHmB>`_ on

>      ``asyncio`` created by core Python team member, Łukasz Langa.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
     ``asyncio`` created by Python core team member, Łukasz Langa.
```

   * `500 Lines or Less: A Web Crawler With asyncio Coroutines <https://
     aosabook.org/en/500L/a-web-crawler-with-asyncio-coroutines.html>`_ by A.
     Jesse Jiryu Davis and Guido van Rossum.

--------------------------------------------
A conceptual overview part 1: the high-level

> --------------------------------------------

Reviewer 4: This makes little sense to me, since the title of the second part does not say it is.

Author: Ah, good catch. I tweaked the latter section title to include part 2.

Some jobs are added directly by you, and some indirectly by :mod:`!asyncio`.
The event loop takes a job from its backlog of work and invokes it (or "gives
it control"), similar to calling a function, and then that job runs.
Once it pauses or completes, it returns control to the event loop.
The event loop will then select another job from its pool and invoke it.
You can *roughly* think of the collection of jobs as a queue: jobs are added and
then processed one at a time, generally (but not always) in order.
This process repeats indefinitely with the event loop cycling endlessly
onwards.
If there are no more jobs pending execution, the event loop is smart enough to
rest and avoid needlessly wasting CPU cycles, and will come back when there's
more work to be done.

Effective execution relies on jobs sharing well and cooperating; a greedy job
could hog control and leave the other jobs to starve, rendering the overall
event loop approach rather useless.

::

   import asyncio

   # This creates an event loop and indefinitely cycles through
   # its collection of jobs.
   event_loop = asyncio.new_event_loop()
   event_loop.run_forever()

=====================================

> Asynchronous Functions and Coroutines

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Asynchronous functions and coroutines
```
Style guide: Sentence case

.. _a-conceputal-overview-of-asyncio:

*********************************
A Conceptual Overview of asyncio
*********************************

> :Author: Alexander Nordin

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

Please see our [style guide](https://devguide.python.org/documentation/style-guide/#author-attribution), new documentation should not have such text, as it discourages others from contributing.

Reviewer 4: This comment has yet to be addressed.

Reviewer 2: Hm, maybe we should make an exception to this rule here. This isn't getting a whatsnew or blurb entry, so @anordin95 has no other way to be acknowledged for his efforts.

The devguide doesn't do a great job of explaining *why* author attribution discourages other people from contributing; would you mind pointing me to the issue where this was discussed? I'm curious if this was based on actual contributor feedback or just speculation.

Reviewer 4: This was decided by the EB IIRC. It has been done for the latest HOWTO (which I think is the only one since the guide’s introduction).

Reviewer 2: Is there a link to the EB discussion/decision? I'm not really familiar with how their governance process works.

Reviewer 3: A NEWS entry can be added under the documentation category.

Author: I had noticed most of the other HOWTO's had a byline and figured this would fit the pattern. And given, the nature of HOWTO's (long form articles imbued with some style, humor and flourish from the author) as opposed to other parts of the documentation, thought it made sense. The byline also provides context for the personal references (like "That might sound odd to you. Frankly, it was to me too."). 

Granted, I also imagine my own vanity or desire for recognition is playing into this a decent bit.

Reviewer 2: > A NEWS entry can be added under the documentation category.

Those are for modifications to the docs *build*, we don't/shouldn't have anything in there about newly added documentation.

Reviewer 3: Mmh, not really. You can see that we have mentions of improved documentations as it's hard to spot them otherwise: https://docs.python.org/3/whatsnew/changelog.html#id19 and https://docs.python.org/3/whatsnew/changelog.html#id40.

Reviewer 2: I guess we could do that. As a compromise for avoiding the byline, could we add something like "This page was inspired by Alexander Nordin's [guide to asyncio](https://github.com/anordin95/a-conceptual-overview-of-asyncio)" to the top?

Reviewer 3: I wouldn't oppose it but I would really want to remove the byline because that's against the current guidelines. Credits would be given in the full changelog so it's not an issue IMO.

Reviewer: I think HOWTO is sufficiently disctinct as a document type (longform prose) that I think keeping the `:author:` note here is fine. Alternatively, you could do "*Originally written by Alex Nordin*".

Reviewer 3: None of the recent HOWTOs actually have an `:author:` (e6ec6f5b50e8793172e83a9afbb05fe01f236b37, 68e384c2179fba41bc3be469e6ef34927a37f4a5, 02b272b7026b68e70b4a4d9a0ca080904aed374c, 59057ce55a443f35bfd685c688071aebad7b3671) and some of them have the credits inside the commit message, so I prefer that we keep the current practice when possible.

Reviewer 2: I think it's a different story when a core dev or triager authors the PR (like in all those examples), because org members already get recognition in plenty of other ways. I don't think we should avoid giving credit to a first-time contributor's hard work based on a (seemingly arbitrary) devguide rule. That rule is supposed to encourage contribution, but I'd argue that it does the exact opposite in this case.

Reviewer: @picnixz if you remain opposed to `:author:`, would you compromise on the "originally by ..." I suggested above? Personally I agree with Peter, but this is a minor point & shouldn't impede progress.

Reviewer 3: Yes, I'm ok with the "originally by". I'm actually not opposed to crediting the work. I'm just opposed to have the byline itself. I'm perfectly fine with having something citing a work upon which this is based. As a side note, I'm also not opposed to citing authors inside code comments in general as they are more low-level and help knowing who maintains what and who did what (it's more as a form of contact).

Reviewer 5: Folks,

Here's some context on.

First, thank you @anordin95 for this PR and the lovely work to make asyncio more understandable and accessible to users. 💐 

The @python/editorial-board made a decision to update the style guide to strongly discourage any new documentation from having an author byline. Over the years, many contributors were discouraged from contributing to documents since the original author rejected pull requests to improve a doc. Since documentation is a community resource, the Editorial Board decided that the bylines discouraged contribution more than encouraged them.

In this particular situation, we definitely want to recognize @anordin95 for his good work. I could see several pathways to do so:
- a `seealso` block that links out to the external guide which also mentions that the guide inspired the HOWTO. :heart:
- recognition in What's New under documentation
- recognition in a Discourse thread about the availability of the HOWTO

I hope this clarifies the questions here.

P.S. [Link to the Editorial Board Changelog](content/changelog/2024-08-28-style-guide-recs.md)

Reviewer 4: Copying @willingc's message here, as it seems to be on another thread:

> Folks,
> 
> Here's some context on.
> 
> First, thank you @anordin95 for this PR and the lovely work to make asyncio more understandable and accessible to users. 💐
> 
> The @python/editorial-board made a decision to update the style guide to strongly discourage any new documentation from having an author byline. Over the years, many contributors were discouraged from contributing to documents since the original author rejected pull requests to improve a doc. Since documentation is a community resource, the Editorial Board decided that the bylines discouraged contribution more than encouraged them.
> 
> In this particular situation, we definitely want to recognize @anordin95 for his good work. I could see several pathways to do so:
> 
>     a seealso block that links out to the external guide which also mentions that the guide inspired the HOWTO. ❤️
>     recognition in What's New under documentation
>     recognition in a Discourse thread about the availability of the HOWTO
> 
> I hope this clarifies the questions here.

Reviewer 2: Ok, thanks Carol. I'm personally in favor of the `seealso` block.

Author: Wow. That was an impressive showing of how to effectively, kindly manage disagreement! Thank you for the context :)

Ah, I see. Bylines can inadvertently embolden some authors to reject otherwise thoughtful, helpful contributions.

I modified to use a `seealso` block and removed the byline.

Author: I think this is done, so I'm marking as resolved.

This article seeks to help you build a sturdy mental model of how asyncio
fundamentally works. Something that will help you understand the how and why
behind the recommended patterns. The final section, :ref:`which_concurrency_do_I_want`, zooms out a bit and compares the
common approaches to concurrency -- multiprocessing, multithreading & asyncio -- and describes where
each is most useful.

> During my own asyncio learning process, a few aspects particually drove my curiosity (read: drove me nuts). You

Reviewer 4: Such personalization is discouraged, see this [issue](https://github.com/python/cpython/issues/62480)

Author: I generally agree that too much personalization or flourish can be distracting, but I think there's a balance to be struck. Sometimes, it can be of great use to the reader. Furthermore, of any place in the docs, I think explainers/HOWTOs are most suited for this kind of writing. 

In the issue you referenced, someone also replied to this effect: https://github.com/python/cpython/issues/62480#issuecomment-1093619748

Reviewer 2: I agree that "you" adds a nice personal touch to tutorials, but I'll leave it up to the documentation experts.

Reviewer 4: I was not talking about the „you”, I was instead referring to this:

> During my own asyncio learning process, a few aspects particually drove my
curiosity (read: drove me nuts).

Even if for some odd reason we do want to keep this, we should not have an idiom which will be problematic for translators and (as the devguide states, use simple language) readers.

Author: I assume you want to remove the whole sentence, yes? The "odd reason" I think it should be kept is that it adds useful context and relates to the the user; getting confused and even frustrated by `asyncio` is okay and happened for the author of the article too. A bit of personality can likely help folks feel less intimidated by confusing subjects. And I feel it's a much more natural lead in to the list of learning objectives that follows.

Similarly I think something is lost when removing a bit of humor -- "(read: drove me nuts)", but I hear you on translation difficulties. I could replace it with something more straightforward like: "(read: confused the heck out of me)".

Author: I think this has been addressed. For reference, here's the new text:

"You might be curious about some key ``asyncio`` concepts.
You'll be comfortably able to answer these questions by the end of this
article."

should be able to comfortably answer all these questions by the end of this article.

- What's roughly happening behind the scenes when an object is ``await``-ed?

> - How does asyncio differentiate between a task which doesn't need CPU-time to make progress towards completion, for example, a network request or file read as opposed to a task that does need cpu-time to make progress, like computing n-factorial?

Reviewer 3: Could you wrap lines at 80 characters please? That's important for people who don't autowrap lines in their IDE (like me). Having too long lines makes it hard to follow on GitHub as well. TiA.

- How would I go about writing my own asynchronous variant of some operation? Something like an async sleep, database request, etc.

The first two sections feature some examples but are generally focused on theory and explaining concepts.
The next two sections are centered around examples, focused on further illustrating and reinforcing ideas
practically.

.. contents:: Sections
    :depth: 1

>     :local:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. contents:: Sections
   :depth: 1
   :local:
```

---------------------------------------------
A conceptual overview part 1: the high-level
---------------------------------------------

In part 1, we'll cover the main, high-level building blocks of asyncio: the event-loop,

> coroutine functions, coroutine objects, tasks & ``await``.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
coroutine functions, coroutine objects, tasks and ``await``.
```

> ==========================
> Event Loop
> ==========================

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
==========
Event Loop
==========
```
These should be trimmed, similar needs to be done for the others.

Author: Done 👍

Everything in asyncio happens relative to the event-loop. It's the star of the show and there's only one.
It's kind of like an orchestra conductor or military general. She's behind the scenes managing resources.
Some power is explicitly granted to her, but a lot of her ability to get things done comes from the respect

> & cooperation of her subordinates.

Reviewer 3: Let's avoid using `&` and use `and` (I think the rationale is the same as for why we shouldn't use "e.g." and "i.e." when there's an english word for that).

> In more technical terms, the event-loop contains a queue of tasks to be run. Some tasks are added directly

Reviewer 3: Do we say "event-loop" or "event loop" in the asyncio docs?

Reviewer 2: "event loop", I mentioned this yesterday. It was supposed to be fixed, but I think one of the occurrences was missed.

Author: Hm. Yes, @ZeroIntensity mentioned this and I believe I fixed them all. I checked the source and the latest pushed commit (which was pushed before your comments) and I don't see this there. The same goes for most of your other comments like the "&" -> "and", the line wrapping, etc.

@picnixz I'm not sure how, but I think you submitted comments on a rather outdated commit.

    event_loop = asyncio.new_event_loop()
    event_loop.run_forever()

====================================
Asynchronous Functions & Coroutines
====================================

This is a regular 'ol Python function::

    def hello_printer():
        print(
            "Hi, I am a lowly, simple printer, though I have all I "
            "need in life -- \nfresh paper & a loving octopus-wife."
        )

Calling a regular function invokes its logic or body::

    >>> hello_printer()
    Hi, I am a lowly, simple printer, though I have all I need in life --
    fresh paper & a loving octopus-wife.
    >>>

This is an asynchronous-function or coroutine-function::

    async def special_fella(magic_number: int):
        print(
            "I am a super special function. Far cooler than that printer. "
            f"By the way, my lucky number is: {magic_number}."
        )

Calling an asynchronous function creates and returns a coroutine object. It does not execute the function::

    >>> special_fella(magic_number=3)
    <coroutine object special_fella at 0x104ed2740>
    >>>

The terms "asynchronous function" (or "coroutine function") and "coroutine object" are often conflated

> as coroutine. I find that a tad confusing. In this article, coroutine will exclusively mean "coroutine object"

Reviewer 3: I feel that we want a more formal tone here, so I would saying

```suggestion
as coroutine, which may be confusing. In this article, coroutine will exclusively mean "coroutine object"
```

    another_special_task = asyncio.Task(coro=special_fella(magic_number=12))

===========
await
===========

``await`` is a Python keyword that's commonly used in one of two different ways::

    await task
    await coroutine

Unfortunately, it actually does matter which type of object await is applied to.

``await``-ing a task will cede control from the current task or coroutine to the event-loop. And while doing so, 
add a callback to the awaited task's list of callbacks indicating it should resume the current task/coroutine 
when it (the ``await``-ed one) finishes. Said another way, when that awaited task finishes, it adds the original task
back to the event-loops queue. 

In practice, it's slightly more convoluted, but not by much. In part 2, we'll walk through the 
details that make this possible. And in the control flow analysis example we'll walk through, in precise detail, 
the various control handoffs in an example async program.

**Unlike tasks, await-ing a coroutine does not cede control!** Wrapping a coroutine in a task first, then ``await``-ing 
that would cede control. The behavior of ``await coroutine`` is effectively the same as invoking a regular, 

> synchronous Python function. Consider this program::

Author: Personally, I’m not sure why this design decision was made and find it rather confuses the meaning of await: asynchronously wait. If someone here does know, please tell me so I can update this section appropriately! I think providing such context can aid significantly with peoples understanding (myself included!). 

For reference, I'd imagine either having coroutines yield in their `__await__` or disallowing `await coroutine` entirely (thereby effectively mandating people who want to use coroutines must use `coroutine.send()`).

Reviewer 2: If I understand your question correctly, it's just that coroutines act as a wrapper over other tasks. Using `await` on a coroutine will cede control once that coroutine calls `await` on a task.

Author: Yes, agreed! Coroutines will give up control once `await` is used on a task or future. 

However, I think that coroutines not ceding on `await` is somewhat surprising behavior. One of the upsides of asyncio is the precise visibility into where control handoffs happen. This behavior muddles that insight a bit. The person reading the code can't just look for `await`'s, they need to know the type of the object being `await`ed. 

I imagine most coroutines do eventually call something which will `await` a task or future, but some may not. In a similar vein as that first point, this behavior feels like a sneaky gotcha that could surprise users and lead to implementations that unintentionally hog the event loop.

Finally, I don't really see a strong upside to the current behavior in the face of those downsides. I'd prefer entirely disallowing `await coroutine` and instead having authors rely on `coroutine.send`. But, of course, I might be missing something!

Reviewer 2: > I imagine most coroutines do eventually call something which will await a task or future, but some may not.

It's not that intuitive, but if no future/task is called down the line, then there's no point in making it async. A function becomes async because it needs to `await` something else that is async, and that should go all the way down the line until you hit a case where someone made something async to `await` a future/task. If there isn't one, then there was no point in making anything async in the first place.

Author: Yes, you can still write correct or incorrect programs either way. My concern is that a well designed tool should be hard to misuse. And I don't see an upside for the synchronous `await coroutine` behavior, despite this downside.

For a concrete example, consider someone working in a broader async codebase. They want to create functionality to asynchronously wait for a db request from their in-house, custom db. They write something like this. And fail to realize they're unwittingly going to stall the whole event loop, despite the various uses of `await`. 
```
async def read_from_db():
    while True:
        is_db_ready = await check_is_db_ready()
        if is_db_ready:
            db_record = await fetch_db_record()
            return db_record
```

Reviewer 7: I think it's basically syntactic-sugar for yield from (i.e. the syntax that was originally used in 3.4). Therefore it's needed to enter the coroutine (which is basically another name for a generator) and run that code. In other words, anything `async` needs to use `await`, but it doesn't necessarily yield.

It would be more accurate to say that `await` is the only place in the code where we _may_ yield back to the event loop, but there's no guarantee unless you are familiar with the functionality of that code. e.g. In aiohttp, some users may, on the rare occasion, get caught by code processing data slower than it arrives and therefore the code never actually needs to yield to the event loop (because we're never waiting for the socket).

Author: Hm. @Dreamsorcerer, I'm not sure I totally follow. Let me make sure I understand!

It sounds like synchronous execution of `await coroutine` wasn't an explicit design goal. But moreso a side effect of building the coroutine functionality on top of `yield from`. Or, is there some upside to that design which I'm not seeing?

Reviewer 7: I don't know about explicit design, I wasn't involved. But, I assume this is related to how it was implemented (i.e. using generators and `yield from`). I don't think tasks existed originally, so that element was added later.

The upside is probably performance, I suspect asyncio would be a lot slower if we yielded to the event loop on every single coroutine (think that a single `await` in your code may result in several nested `await`s through the call stack before reaching a coroutine that is actually meant to yield).

We actually have micro-optimisations in aiohttp where we avoid scheduling a task if we expect it to resolve without delay.

Author: Ahhhh!! I initially figured performance wouldn't be a huge deal, but I hadn't really thought through the extent of deeply nested tasks vs. coros. Gosh that's been bugging me for a while. Thank you :)

I set up a harness to verify. The jist of it is below. One is coroutines all the way down, the other Tasks.

```
async def coro5(x: int):
    return x + 1
...
async def coro2(x: int):
    return await coro3(x) + 1
async def coro1(x: int):
    return await coro2(x) + 1

async def main():
    for _ in range(10_000):
        output = await coro1(7)
    return output
```

Time elapsed for the coroutine approach: 0.00419s.
Time elapsed for the Task approach: 1.48859s.

https://github.com/anordin95/a-conceptual-overview-of-asyncio/blob/20fe2ddbb375e55cc9e835fa3239cfc1ffc4ec68/hypotheses/9-await-perf-coro.py#L4-L22
https://github.com/anordin95/a-conceptual-overview-of-asyncio/blob/20fe2ddbb375e55cc9e835fa3239cfc1ffc4ec68/hypotheses/10-await-perf-task.py#L4-L22

    import asyncio

    async def coro_a():
        print("I am coro_a(). Hi!")

    async def coro_b():
        print("I am coro_b(). I sure hope no one hogs the event-loop...")

    async def main():
        task_b = asyncio.Task(coro_b())
        num_repeats = 3
        for _ in range(num_repeats):
            await coro_a()
        await task_b

    asyncio.run(main())

The first statement in the coroutine ``main()`` creates ``task_b`` and places it on the event-loops queue. Then,
``coro_a()`` is repeatedly ``await``-ed. Control never cedes to the event-loop which is why we see the output
of all three ``coro_a()`` invocations before ``coro_b()``'s output:

.. code-block:: none

>     I am coro_a(). Hi!

Reviewer 3: Use 3-chars indent (for the first indent) inside a directive

Author: Done 👍

Author: I think this has been addressed :)

Author: I think this is done, so I'm marking as resolved.

your own asynchronous operators.

===============================================
coroutine.send(), await, yield & StopIteration
===============================================

asyncio leverages those 4 components to pass around control.

``coroutine.send(arg)`` is the method used to start or resume a coroutine. If the coroutine was paused and is now being
resumed, the argument ``arg`` will be sent in as the return value of the ``yield`` statement which originally paused it. If
the coroutine is being started, as opposed to resumed, ``arg`` must be None.

``yield``, like usual, pauses execution and returns control to the caller. In the example below, the ``yield`` is on line 3
and the caller is ``... = await rock`` on line 11. Generally, ``await`` calls the ``__await__`` method of the given object.
``await`` also does one more very special thing: it percolates (or passes along) any yields it receives up the call-chain.
In this case, that's back to ``... = coroutine.send(None)`` on line 16.

The coroutine is resumed via the ``coroutine.send(42)`` call on line 21. The coroutine picks back up from where it

> ``yield``-ed (i.e. paused) on line 3 and executes the remaining statements in its body. When a coroutine finishes

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
``yield``-ed (that is, paused) on line 3 and executes the remaining statements in its body. When a coroutine finishes
```
Please read our [style guide section on using simple language](https://devguide.python.org/documentation/style-guide/#use-simple-language)

Author: Done 👍

it raises a ``StopIteration`` exception with the return value attached to the exception.

::

>     1   class Rock:

Reviewer 3: You can avoid using lines and use `.. code-block::` + `:linenos:`: https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/directives.html#directive-option-code-block-linenos

Author: Ah, nice! Done 👍

Author: I think this is done, so I'm marking as resolved.

now, we'll go through it in detail in the control-flow example.

::

    1  class Future:
    2      ...
    3      def __await__(self):
    4
    5          if not self.done():
    6              yield self
    7
    8          if not self.done():
    9              raise RuntimeError("await wasn't used with future")
    10
    11         return self.result()

The ``Task`` class does not override ``Future``'s ``__await__`` implementation. ``await``-ing a task or future
invokes that above ``__await__`` method and percolates the ``yield`` on line 6 to relinquish
control to its caller, which is generally the event-loop.

========================
A homemade asyncio.sleep
========================

We'll go through an example of how you could leverage a future to create your own variant of asynchronous
sleep (i.e. asyncio.sleep).

This snippet puts a few tasks on the event-loops queue and then ``await``\ s a
yet unknown coroutine wrapped in a task: ``async_sleep(3)``. We want that task to finish only after
3 seconds have elapsed, but without hogging control while waiting.

::

    async def other_work():

>         print(f"I am worker. Work work.")

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        print("I am worker. Work work.")
```

Author: Done 👍

function will iterate, in other words, synchronously hog control, before ceding
back to the event-loop. 

.. code-block:: python

    async def uniform_sum(n_samples: int, time_allotment: float) -> float:
        
        start_time = time.time()

        total = 0.0
        for _ in range(n_samples):
            total += random.random()

            time_elapsed = time.time() - start_time
            if time_elapsed > time_allotment:
                await YieldToEventLoop()
                start_time = time.time()
    
        return total

The above snippet was simplified a bit. Reading ``time.time()`` and evaluating an if-condition
on every iteration for many, many iterations (in this case roughly a hundred million) more than
eats up the runtime savings associated with the asynchronous approach. The actual
implementation involves chunking the iteration, so you only perform the check 
every few million iterations. With that change, the asynchronous approach wins in a landslide. 
This is important to keep in mind. Too much checking or constantly jumping between tasks can 
ultimately cause more harm than good!

The server, async & serial programs are available in full here: 

> https://github.com/anordin95/a-conceptual-overview-of-asyncio/tree/main/barebones-network-io-example.

Author: I imagine it's best not to link to external repos which may change and thereby break the link. I wasn't sure what the preferred way of including this handful of Python files would be. Please let me know and I'll update this accordingly :)

.. _which_concurrency_do_I_want:

------------------------------
Which concurrency do I want
------------------------------

===========================
multiprocessing
===========================

For any computationally bound work in Python, you likely want to use multiprocessing.
Otherwise, the Global Interpreter Lock (GIL) will generally get in your way! For those who don't
know, the GIL is a lock which ensures only one Python instruction is executed at a time.
Of course, since processes are generally entirely independent from one another, the GIL in one
process won't be impeded by the GIL in another process. Granted, I believe there are ways to

> also get around the GIL in a single process by leveraging C extensions.

Reviewer: This should cover subinterpreters. However, in the meantime I would probably remove this section -- this PR is alredy very large (750 lines).

Author: I do agree the PR's large and that's problematic. But small PR's are a bit at odds with the nature of a long-form explainer article. That is, it might be difficult to evaluate or review the introduction or first section without seeing how they're leveraged by later sections.

And mmm gotcha. I do think it's helpful to have this general discussion (which extends beyond just asyncio & multithreading to multiprocessing), especially for newbies. In the interest of reducing size, I suppose I could whack the whole section: Which concurrency do I want, with the plan to add it later? What do you think?

Reviewer: Sounds good. Have you seen Eric's draft general concurrency HOWTO?

Author: I hate to vaccillate, but I'm having second thoughts about whacking the "Which concurrency do I want" in the interest of size. I think it offers accessible, simple, high-level context for guiding folks towards the right tool which complements the other parts of this article. And the section is a mere 330 words of the article's over 4,000 words. 

And, no I have not seen Eric's draft general concurrency HOWTO, but I'd be curious to look at it! It probably makes sense to link to it from this section once it's done.

And, I've added a brief reference to using subinterpreters.

Reviewer: > And the section is a mere 330 words of the article's over 4,000 words.

To be slightly blunt, the risk you face with this PR is that it will go unreviewed due to lack of time/resource. Any committer will generally look askance at such a large diff, even if it is 'only' documentation. My advice here is more general: you will have a better chance of making progress with a series of smaller changes. The asyncio tutorial we discussed earlier didn't languish due to content reasons, but for process -- a request to remove some sections here isn't binning those words, just delaying them to the next PR.

A

Author: Ahhh, I see. Fair enough! I went ahead and took it a step further by cutting the two example sections along with the "which concurrency do I want" section. The article's now roughly half the original size.
